So let me try to motivate you by giving a scenario why we are interested in FPGA. So consider a scenario where I want to update my computer. So in 2010, I bought my computer. It came with Microsoft Office version 2010. And in year 2016, Microsoft released Office 2016. I want to upgrade my system. So what do I do? I just download my new software and install it. That's it. Now consider a similar scenario where I have to update my hardware. For example, in 2010 my gigabit Ethernet it supported only one gigabit interface but in 2016 I want to upgrade it to 10 gigabit Ethernet. Now how do I do it? I have to physically remove the Ethernet card when you see here and buy a new card and install it. So what does it tell you? In the first

In this case we are upgrading a software and in the second case we are updating a hardware and it seems like software is inherently flexible and hardware is not. Now imagine how nice it would have been if you can upgrade your hardware the same way you upgrade the software there is no need to buy a new hardware physically remove it from your computer and put a new hardware instead the same way you install a software You can install a hardware also. Now this is the grand view of FPGA and currently you cannot do to that extent but you will find out to some extent this is possible, you can update your hardware even after you install your hardware, that's the promise of FPGA. Now why hardware

That is not flexible. So we have studied in our last semester the ICU design course and you have seen the integrated circuit and we mostly use so called the application specific integrated circuit which are specific for a particular application like we have specific chip for Wi-Fi, we have specific chip for Ethernet controller etc. Now the functionality of these chips are built into them at the time of manufacturing itself. So you can I think like the functionality is put into the silicon inside a factory at the time of manufacturing itself and once they are manufactured you can't change the circuit inside them. So that makes them inflexible. Now maybe one day it may be possible that transistors and the circuit inside the chip

can physically change after manufacturing and research is happening in that direction and we are not yet there So we need to use some alternative technique to achieve this. That means you should be able to change the circuit inside a chip after manufacturing. And at least in digital domain it is possible now and in unlock domain also, to some extent it is possible because we have new chips called field programmable unlock that is also where you can change the unlock circuit after manufacturing. Now before finding out how it is done using FPGAs we will accept some of the pseudo-axioms these are not real axioms but I just made them up. So first axiom states that any digital circuit can be built using two types of basic elements

the logic gates and flip-flops and wires to connect them. Now you already know what gates and flip-flops are, I'm not repeating it we have different kinds of and we have different kind of flip-flops also but basically we are interested in so called the D flip-flop which can store one bit of data at a time. And flip-flops, they are the basic unit of memory. Now wires are pieces of conductors which are used for connecting gates and flip-flops all together. Now does it matter how complex your circuit is? They can be always built

Now consider a small digital memory, now remember our computer architecture code, so this is a memory and from the figure you can find the memory has 4 rows, each row can store only 1 bit of data and each row can be accessed by specifying the address of the row. access by specifying the address of the row. So this row has address 0, this address 1, 2 and 3. This I0 and I1 they are the address pairs so if you place 00 here you're accessing the first row. If you play 01 you are accessing the second row so on and so forth. So traditionally So, finally we will put the LSPIT of address in I0 and MSPIT of address I1. This O here is the data... So, when you place a particular address here the data in the corresponding memory location

will come through this line, the O line and again it is only one bit wide because each memory location is only one. Now suppose I somehow stored this data inside the memory so at this point we don't care about how we actually stored it somehow we stored this data in the memory 0001 and now if you give address as 00, the data in the first location, 0 will come out here and same way you place the other address 01, data in first location comes out, 10, data in second location, 11, data in third location. So this is how the memory will operate. Now if you write the relation between the input so basically your address bus and the data So, this is the table you will get. And if you closely examine, you'll find this table is

exactly same as a truth table of an AND gate. So in another way, this memory is emulating an AND gate, this memory equivalent to an AND gate so these two represent the input to the AND gate, and this represents the output of the AND gate. Now you take the same memory and you just change the data inside that instead of 0001 and then you can use the same memory to emulate any two input gate. The second axiom states that an n input to n-bit deep memory can emulate any input logic in it. So I forgot to mention last time but you already know if you have two bits address, the depth of the memory is 2 to the power of n. Okay? So if you have n input address plus the total depth of the memories is 2 to power of n and that is what is written

and N input, so there are N address pass, so the depth is 2 to the power of N and each location is 1 bit. So the total memory is 2 to power of N bit and it can emulate any N input logic kit. Now you can extend it and state that any N input memory can emulate any n input Boolean function. Now from now onwards this small memory, this kind of memory we are going to call them with a special name called lookup table or LUT. Now look at the example here where we can use lookup tables to emulate the gates and build a circuit so we have an AND gate here or gate here and one more and gate here, you replace this and gate with a LUT with this data, this AND gate with this

data and this OR gate with this LUT with these data. So how this data comes here? We already found out because they are equivalent to these gates and again you can see the input to the gates, they go as the address bus to the memory and output of the gate they are same as the Data Plus from this memory and you connect them together and this circuit emulate this circuit but remember you can change the circuit by changing the content of this memory again. Now digital circuits, again you already know this, are broadly classified into two they are combination circuits and sequential circuit combination circuits they don't have any memory you give an input at the same VIT, VIT, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-S

So, when the clock transition happens, the input propagates to the output. And again you already know the clocks are practically a continuous query. So look at the example of a 2-bit adder here. So, you have a sequential adder. So what do you do is you just hook up flip-flops at the output of the combinational circuit and you have a sequential circuit. And if you look at the timing diagram, for combinational circuit you give the input if we here immediately there's some changes like this but in sequential circuit also your inputs are changing here, your output changes only during the clock transition. So in this case I have taken this positive edge trigger D flip-flop that means the output is changing

only during the positive edges of the clock and you can see here if the inputs are changing when the clock is not changing or when the clock study they are not propagated to the of only when the clock transition happens from low to high, the inputs are propagated to out. Now in circuit you have to build both sequential and combinational so how do we do it? So you have already seen the lookup table last time what you do is you take a lookup table and you hook up a D-FIFFLOP and a 2-2-N MUX as shown in this figure okay and this particular architecture 1 LUT, 1D flip-flop and 1Mux. This complete architecture, we call it a CLB or Configurable Logic Block. This is not a standardized term. This term is used by FPGAs produced by Xilinx which

is the largest manufacturer of FPGAs. The main competitor is Intel. They use their own term. They usually call it ALM, Adaptive Logic Module. But doesn't matter this semester we'll be using Xilinx FPGA. So remember the term CLB. CLB will enable you to implement both sequential as well as combinational circuits. So how do they do it? So look at this case. So if you make the MUX control signal 0, the output of CLB, the oral output which is coming here is the output coming from the lookup table. So you give the input here to the lookup table it may be emulating some gates or circuit, the output comes here that output is going to the replay flow as well as to the MUX but if you make this MUX control 0, the signal coming from the LUT directly goes as the output. So this is actually emulating a combinator circuit. Now if you make the control signal 1 what happens is the output from the D flip-flop goes as the output of the CLB. So input comes here it goes to the LUT, LUT output comes, LUT out goes to the D flip-flop, dot output directly goes to the MUX, but the control signal is 1. So the output from the flip-flop is propagated as the output of the CLB. So in a sense this emulates a sequential circuit. So using CLB you can build both combinational as well as sequential by controlling these MUX.

Now the content of the lookup table and the control bit used for the MUX they together we call them as configuration bit. Pit, again look at the case here you have to build a 4 input AND gate for that I am going to use a 4 input lookup table. So you have 2 to the power of 4 16 memory location and since this is AND gate every location is 0 except the last case where the address is 1 1 1 1 so only in that case it is 1 in all other cases it is 0. So this is the condition of the lookup table, now I want a pure foreign input and get with this combination circuit so I need to bypass this flip-flop. So what you do is you make this control signal 0, so the output of the LUT becomes the output of CLB. So these bits together with this bit we

call them the configuration bit. Now at least for Xilinx FPGA the basic building block is So you have CLBs here, we have already seen the architecture. You take a bunch of them and arrange them in a two-dimensional mesh. And you place so called switch boxes here. It's written SP in between. You'll see their functions next. So you put the switch boxes in between So, we have an FPGA. Each CLB here is internally this circuit you have already seen. So, we abstract them and just represent it as a square. Now, in ZA modern FPGA there are thousands and thousands of such CLBs. This is the internals of a real FPGA, the one we will be using this semester. And each of the green dots that you see here they represent

and a CLB. So there are thousands of them actually, okay? Not just four as shown in this figure. This is simplified one. In modern FPGAs there are thousands of them and again modern FPGAs if you look the architecture of the CLB they are much more complex instead of a single LUT and single flip-flop. The new Xilinx FPGA, they have 4 LUTs, you can see 1 2 3 4 LUT here and 1 2 3 5 6 7 8 flip-flops and associated circuitry to combine them. And each LUT here they are 6 input that means they are 16 bit deep so 16 bit deep, 4 lookup tables and 8 T flip-flops. And they can be connected together that is and be connected together. Okay? That is a practical scenario.

Okay, now next! So as we discussed, a 6-input LUT can implement any 6-input logic function but practically your circuits are much complex actually. They may need thousands of inputs or hundreds of inputs so using one single LUT you won't be able to implement your entire circuit. You will have to combine multiple LUTs and multiple free slots to implement your Enter circuit. So let's find out how it is actually done, how do you connect LUTs or CLBs together? For that we'll take this circuit as an example so here we have two gates and one flip-flop and remember I'm taking the example of a two input LUT so we need one LUT to implement this AND gate, we need one to implement this XOR gate and we can use one flip- flop in between.

Now a special structure called Programmable Interconnects. They are the one which enables interconnection of CLPs. So, the interconnections they consist of switchboxes so-called and several wires actually. So, the wires connect output from CLB with inputs of switchboxes similarly output from switchboxes to the input of CLB and each switch box they contain so called a crossbar array. So first let's look at crossbar array, then let's build up. So this is a simplified view of a crossbar arrays so you can see there are rows and columns of wires and they are not connected actually so there is no connection wherever they are crossing okay so you can think like the arranged one or the other one rows and columns they are in two different layers

So, suppose you want to connect this column with this particular row, what you do is you just close the switch. So they are connected now. Now if you want to conduct this column with these columns, what you can do is you close This switch, so this column is connected with this row now and you close this switch also. That means this row is connected with these columns. So effectively this column is connect with this column also. So any row can be connected with any column using this architecture. So that's why we call this as a fully connected crossbar switch. This is a full crossbar, you can connect any row with any column. Now let's come back to the FPGA. So, in the previous slide we have already seen what CLBs are and there

are these blue boxes sitting in between they are nothing but the crossbar switches the one you just saw here okay now instead of these physical switches the switch that are sitting at each junction they are built using transistor okay so each junction here has a structure like this is composed of 6 transistors, you can see. They are called floating gate transistor. So if you give 0 to their gate, these transistors are off. If you give 1 to their gate they turn O, so instead of... So, this is the first step. This column continues downwards. What you should do is you need to turn this transistor also on. So, this column continues downwards otherwise water signal is coming from the top, comes from

the top and just goes to right it doesn't go down because this transistor is off. Okay so this is how FPGAs are built. You take thousands or millions of CLBs and you take millions of switchboxes and just interconnect them like this. When you have an FPGA, in addition to that you can also see it's written IOSignals or pin because you can see the CLBs on the periphery of the chip, okay? On the edge of the chip they are also connected to the external pins using special wires like SoC, from the CLB, then they can be connected to switch boxes and two other CLBs. Okay now let's come back to our example this is our OROR aim I have this circuit, very small one

I have this FPGA my aim is to implement this circuit using this FPGA and there's an assumption here Assume each CLB has two input look up table. Now how do we do it? So the first step that you need to do is, you need to map each part of this circuit into CLB okay so this is called a mapping process again in IC design also we saw there is a step called map where you have to map the elements to the elements in the standard library. And as far as SPGs are concerned, the only standard library component they are CLPs. So here the aim is how to map the proportion of your circuit to each CLB. So as I mentioned before we have two gates here and our lookup tables are

There are only two inputs, so of course you will need two lego tables to do it and there is only one flip-flop So we can use a single flip-flops to do it Now this entire portion, this gate and this flip-floff can be mapped to a single CLB Because inside a CLB you have a lock as well as a flip-flock And there exists a connection between them So what I do is, I take a LUT and I need to emulate an AND gate so I store 0001 here So this emulates an AND gate Now you have to connect to a flip-flop That connection already exists The output from the CLB should be the output of the flip-flops So the MUX control signal, I will make it 1 So that the output of MUX comes as the output of flip-flop, so like this. So this part, this CLB represents this portion of the circuit. Now this part I will map to the second CLB. So what I do is I need an XOR gate. So I need to store 0110 which emulates an XOR gate. Now the output directly comes from the gate. So I need to bypass the flip-flop. So what we do is I will make the MUX control signal as 0 So that this flip-off is where we passed and output from the left directly comes as the output of the CMP. Now again remember all these bits, this bit, all this bit, this bit together they are called the configuration bits. Okay? Now this input 1, input 2, input 3 and output they are coming from the external world actually.

So again I assume these two are coming from external world, this is the output of So, this CLB that is going to the next CLB. So, these output comes as input to this CLB. The other one, the other input comes from the external world, input 3 and the output that goes to the external world through the pins section. Okay? So first we did mapping. So, we took a circuit, we mapped them to CLB. So, next step again similar to IC design is placement. You need to find out where these CLBs should be placed. So again remember this is inside an FPGA, it is pre-manufactured, all CLBs and switch boxes they already exist there. And basically you need to find out which CLBs should be used for implementing

these two CLBs. So in essence this is also a kind of mapping, you need to find out which CLBs inside the FPGA should be used for implementing these two CLB. Now in that case, you need to find the input output, the pin constraint or pin location because you already know this CLB it takes 2 inputs from external world and this CLB that is also taking 1 input from the external world so we need to use some CLB where pins are connected, so in particular case actually it doesn't matter all CLPs are connected to external work but in a real FPGA that is not the case you have thousands of them and only the CLPs on the periphery they have pins, the ones in the center they don't have pins. So in this

case we need to use some CLPs on the periphery. So I am using this CLB, CLB 0 to implement This one, this CLB1 and this CLB2 to implement this CLB. So this guy is this one, so he's taking two input, input 1, input 2, so these input from the pin they are mapped to input 1 and input 2. This CLB is mapped here. He takes one input from external world, so this I am mapping to input 3 from a pin from external world. This I am not mapping because he takes only one input from the external world. The other one comes from the other CLB. Now output Actually, if you want we can map it here actually, input 1, input 2 and output here, but simply to complicate things I am planning to map this output to the pin connected to this CLB. Okay?

Just to complicate things so that there should be some way to connect this CLB output to CLB and get it to my external. And this process we call it placement, so determining the physical location of each CLB inside an FPGA that's what we call as placement okay and mapping each circuit element to a CLB that's what you call as mapping in FPGA scenario. So, mapping basically means mapping portions of your circuit to CLBs, placement basically means determining the physical location of each CLB inside an FPG. Okay so I put one CLB here, so you will be here, you have already seen and here you can see the output of this CLB should go as the input of this CLB. So how do we do it? We need to configure our switch boxes.

So I assume this is the output coming from the first CLB and I need to configure this switch box in such a way that this output from this CLB goes as the input to this CLB. So this is the inside of this switch box, so what I do is I turn on this transistor and I turn off all other transistors, so the wire coming from the north directly goes to south because only this transistor is out, so it just goes like this. Now as I said before, I wanted to make things complicated so I assigned this pin as output that means the output from this CLB should go to this CLB and finally it should go as output. So what is inside this switch box is given here, what you do is I turn on this

transistor and keep everything else off so the wire coming from the west from the left directly goes to the right, okay. So it goes like this. Now remember inside the CLB you have a lot of flip-flop and marks. This wire actually goes as the input to a lookup table. Now, what values should be stored in that lookup table so that this input directly goes to this output by bypassing the flip-flop that you should find. Now one important term here is routing. So again, in ICD design, you have seen what is routing. that is basically connecting all your transistors together as per the circuit. As far as SPGs are concerned, routing is basically interconnecting the CLBs by configuring the switchboxes.

Now, so last time we mentioned the term configuration bit, the content of all the lookup table, the configuration bits for the MUX inside CLB. They are called configuration bit. In addition to that we have additional configuration bits. They are the bits used for configuring the switch boxes. So all of them together, the content of the nut, the configuration for the MUX and the configuration bits for the switches inside switchbox. All of them together we call configuration bits or we also call them a bit stream and this is the bit stream for our example here so this is what is inside CLB0 these are the content and this is the control bit for the MUX. CLB1, all X basically means they don't care, it doesn't

matter what you store inside the CLB, it doesn' affect the circuit, why? Because CLB1 is not used for building the circuit. CLB2, this is a content, CLB3 which is this one here, Here it is question mark, you need to find out what is the configuration bits for that CLB3 so that this input directly goes as this output and these are the configuration bits for the switch boxes. Okay? So for each transistor we have six transistors inside so each of them represent for each transistor which of them are on and which of them or OFF. Now, you make the switch stream somehow and you send this pitch stream to an FPGA to implement the particular circuit inside that. So this is usually done using a interface called

the JTAG interface which is a very popular interface for programming not only FPGA, it's lot of microcontroller also we see in the lab. It stands for Joint Test Action Group. This is an industry standard CDN interface for programming and debugging. Now sending the speech stream to the FPGAs, and getting that circuit implemented inside the FPGA we usually call it as programming the FPGA. So remember, programming the FPGA is totally different from what we usually mean by our normal programming. So we usually mean sending this bitstream to the FPGA as FPGA program. Now there are a couple of questions here, one question is what restricts the size of the design which we can implement in an FPGA?

What restricts because FPGAs again they are pre-manufactured chips, they have thousands and millions of nuts and flip-flops inside basically what you are doing is if you want You need to implement any circuit, you need to map your circuit to these LUTs and flip-flops, MUX and switch boxes. So basically how many elements are present inside the FPGA determine the maximum size of the circuit that you can implement on an FPGA? So you need to build a circuit which requires 200 lookup tables and you have a chip only with 100 lookup table, you can't simply do it. You have to take a larger FPGA and implement it there. Next question whether the size of the bitstream? So, bitstream is the entire

configuration bits is affected by the size of circuit designed in that FPGA. So, usually it feels like if you have a larger circuit, you will have a larger bitstream but that is not the case because again remember bitstream contains the configuration bits for all the lookup tables, all the muxes, all the switch boxes. For a given SPGS the number of... LUT flip-flop, lookup table switch boxes everything remains constant. So it doesn't matter how large or small your circuit is the size of the bitstream or size of the file that you use for programming remains constant for a given FPGA. If you take a larger FPGA you will have a larger bitstream if you take a smaller FPGA, you'll have a smaller FPGA

If you have a lot of size 4 and if you want to implement a 3 input logic, how to do it? Ok, think about it. How do we do it? And find it out. If you want to connect the output of a flip-flop to the input of another flip-flops, so we don't have this case here. Here the output of one flip-flop is directly going to a gate which can be implemented as a lot. So life is easier but here the question is you have two flip-flopes connected back to back. OK, you have two flip-flops back to back. That means again you will have to use two CLBs because you need two flip- flops. The question is how can you bypass this LUT or what values should be stored in this lookup table so that the output coming from this flip-flop gets directly connected

to the input of this flip-flop. Okay, again think about it what values you should store here so that if the output from this flip- flop is 1, the input to this flip- Flop should be 1, the output from the flip-flops is 0, the input for this flip-flop is 0. So it is as if this doesn't exist there, it is transparent as far as these two flip-flopes are concerned. So what value should be stored there? Again think about it how the placement of the design affects the maximum clock frequency of the circuit. So you need to first say whether the placement, so placement basically means determining which CLBs should be used for actually inside the FPGA, which physical CLBs should use for implementing the CLBs after mapping.

So you need tell whether it will affect the clock frequency and if it affects the clock frequency, how it will affect. So, how we should do the placement and routing also, so that you can get the maximum clock frequency. Okay, so again we are coming back to FPGA. So let me clarify things once again. So FPGAs are integrated circuit. What they have is thousands and thousands of lookup tables and flip-flop and switch boxes and interconnection between them. So they are pre-manufactured. You can implement any digital circuit inside the FPGA. So basically what you are doing is you are altering the content of the lookup tables, you are changing the control bits of

the MUX and you are changing configuration of the switch boxes to get your circuit implemented. So that's why sometimes it seems like any circuit can be implemented in the given FPGA Now why we call it field programmable? Okay, so it is to distinguish it with application-specific ICs. ASICs as we mentioned before their functionality is implemented at the time of manufacturing itself. Once they are manufactured you cannot change them but FPGAs that is not the case. You can change the circuit or what effectively you are doing is you're emulating different circuits inside the FPGA by reprogramming it. So to indicate that they are reprogrammable, their circuit can be changed in the field. After manufacturing we call them field programming.

Now gate arrays it seems like they have two dimensional arrays of gates but you know they don't have two dimensional array of gates what they actually have is two dimensional array lookup tables or CLAs. They don't have two dimensional arrays of gates, but before FPGA there were other chips called PALS and PLS, Programmable Array Logics and Program logic arrays. I don't know maybe in the digital course you have seen them they are actually two-dimensional arrays of gates okay two-dimensional array of AND gates and OR gates and you can implement any combination and PLS, so this gator is coming from these two types but practically there is no gator array, there is an array of CLPs or LUTs.

We can implement different circuits in the same FPGA simply by changing the LUT contents and Routing Networking. We call this FPGA configuration or FPGA program. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-FPGA, ILA‐FPGA, SoC, Vipo, Vitis, Zynq, XSct, SD card. So, VIPO, Vitis-Lite, ILA-, FPGA, ILL. So, VIBE, Vitis‐SCT, ILA-. So, VBI, VBI‐SCT. So, VIG‐SCT is a very simple software software, and it's a very simple of lookup tables, you need to find out the configurations of thousands of muxes, you need to find the configuration of maybe millions of switch boxes. And manually doing it is impossible. So what we do is we do again some kind of abstraction that is where our HDLs are becoming

handy actually. So using VHDL or VIDlog again you describe your circuit and we use some software tool. These software tools are usually provided by the FPGA vendor, so if you are using Xilinx FPGA we will use a software called Vivado which is provided by Xilinx. If you are using Intel FPGA, we use QATAS which is provided in Intel. Now these software they read your code and they interpret your code and find out how this circuit described by Why your HDL can be implemented using LUTs flip-flops, switch boxes. So here you can see the similarity between IC design and FPGA design. The first stage is exactly same. The front end is exactly same, you describe your hardware using HDL. FPGA tools decide how to implement it using LUTs and flip-flops.

IC design software, maybe we used YoSYS or other tools from CAD and Synopsys. They decide how to implement that circuit using the elements available in the standard library. So you see the similarity are quite similar. So this is already familiar with VITLA. So this is the code for A2-bit adder. I have two input, A and B, and single output C output, and you just say C equal to A plus B, and the software understands what you are trying to do. You're trying to build an adder so he finds out how that circuit looks like and how to make that circuit using that. So that's his head. So first step, that is called synthesis again you have seen in our IC design. So reading

Using your HDL description and finding out how to implement it using basic elements here LATSUN flip-flop is called synthesis. And again, this I already mentioned mapping, how to map them to CLBs that is called mapping. You need to find where they should be placed inside an FPGA that is called placement then 2 need to decide how these elements should be connected together, that is called routing and finally you have so-called bitstream or a configuration file and you send this configuration file to an SPGA through a JATAC interface which we call SPGA configuration or sometimes SPGA Now, the modern SPGs, the content of LUTs and the switch boxes and the MUX they are stored

in SRAM based memory inside the chip. SRAM again we have seen it in the computer architecture course. They are volatility in nature that means once you remove the power they will lose ESP8266, and they again consume more power compared to ASIC. Protect power consumption again for comparable benchmarks is less than micro processes and GPS. Now why do we use FPGA compared to ASIC? Again, ASIC the initial cost is very high, designing and manufacturing a new ASIC, it costs around $20,000. So, you can just go to market and buy a new chip and just implement your circuit. So for small volumes if the volumes are few hundreds to a few thousands FPGAs make sense if volume is in terms of millions of chip FPGAs that don't make sense you have to

go for ASIC, if ASIC is more cost effective after 400,000. Now one major advantage of FPGAs is reducing the risk actually. Again last I mentioned you build an ASIC, manufacture it, after manufacturing if you test it and if your chip doesn't work most probably that is the end of your company. You have to go for a re-spin and that may cost again millions of dollar, SPGs that is not the case you program the SPGA you check whether it is working. You may find out it is not working doesn't matter because you can debug it we will find out how to debug it during runtime also we will debug it we'll reprogram it and we keep on doing it until the circuit gets working so the risk is much less for an SPGA based design compared to an ASIC

based design because of its reprobability. Now, SPGs can be programmed again and again so the term is reconfiguration that's why also FPGA based computing we usually call it a reconfigurable computing. So wherever you hear the term reconfigurable computing that simply means computing using FPGAs more or less. There are other chips which and reconfuellable work. More or less in every case we'll be using FPGAs for reconfuelled computing. And where FPGAs are used, so traditionally these are the major markets, telecom, defense, aerospace and automobiles. So you can see these are the industries where we don't have to use millions of chips and circuits are usually proprietary especially for defense and all. We need to make

A specific circuit for a specific application so we won't be manufacturing an ASIC to do it instead we will make it using an FPGA because we need a few thousands of the money again for aerospace satellite application you're not sending millions of satellites, we are sending a few hundred satellites so it makes sense to build the circuit using FPGAs rather than designing a new ASIC and The market share is increasing actually, these are some old statistics, I guess now it is more than 15 billion dollar industry, FPGAs and these are the job market you can try for FPGA design engineer, RTL design engineer, ASIC front-end engineer because as I mentioned before the front-end

and it's exactly same for FPGAs and ASIC, and verification testing engineer. And again some salary statistics, usually the salary for an FPGA engineer is more than a software engineer but the caveat is this includes the salary from Amazon and Google and Facebook all the way to companies which are paying peanuts so take it with a pinch of salt. And still usually, if VGSAT engineers, the sample is quite high compared to software engineers.
