So, this lecture on our course is titled System-on-a-Chip and Programmable System-on a Chip. So basically, this lecture is again an introduction to SoC design. So system-on-chip normally we call them SoCs. And SoCs and SoC based designs they have become a major sub area within embedded systems. That's why we are going to discuss this topic. And most of our labs will be based on SoC design so SoCs they are also integrated circuits. ICs which look similar to your processors or FPGA. But the difference is as the name indicates each chip contains an entire system. Now when we say entire system in this semester you will be seeing microcontroller and you will find the difference between our traditional microprocessors

and microcontroller, you'll find like microcontroller they integrate more preference compared to microprocessor. So, inside a microcontroller you'll have a processor core in addition to that you usually have memory, volatility, non-volatile RAMs and ROMs as well as input output control blocks etc. Now, SoCs they integrate much more than microcontroller. Okay so let's look at few example. One of the most popular one that you might have heard is the Snapdragon SoC which is the most widely used mobile processor. So sometimes you will hear it as a mobile processor, sometimes you'll hear it as an SoC. Actually it's an SoC so if you look at the floor plan

or the die of this SoC chip, so you can see it has processor insert. So these are the processors Cortex A57 and A53 they are ARM based processors. In addition to processor you can see, it has DDR memory here, it has separate core for multimedia processing, it has separate core for display control, it has a USB controller, again separate display engine and it also has a GPU inside the same chip and it also has the model for controlling your mobile communication. So you'll see the entire system is within a single chip. And another widely popular SoC is the Apple A12 chip, Apple Bionic, you might have heard it because this is so see in addition to the processor

here you have six cores in total there are four core GPUs also and you also have something called a neural engine which is neuromorphic computing. So eight cores of neuromorphic computing engine So that's why we call it a Bionic chip also. I also have a memory controller and what is the remaining of the chip? We are yet to find out, so this is done by people who are opening chips and finding out what things are inside the chip because they officially don't release this information. Another popular SoC is Exynos which is becoming popular. This is an SoC from Samsung, and they are using this chip in their low to middle order mobiles. So architecture is quite similar so it has multi cores here, A57, these are ARM processor, A57 processor

and there are A53 processor. In addition to that it has all kind of I2C, SPI, timing control, All display control on the peripherals. So again, this is an SoC, you have the camera controller here. So all the peripherals in the system they are integrated inside a single chip so that's why we call them system-only chip. Now there are certain advantages and disadvantages of SoC. So of course one of the major advantage is saving space because you have a single chip which indicates all the difference or all area required for the system is much smaller which makes sense when you go for mobile technology, you want your phone to be very slim, very small sleek so we need to use SoCs and since all these systems are on the same chip power consumption

is much less. So if you look at any computing platform most of the power is consumed for inter-chip communication When data transfer happens between the chips, they have to dry high current which consumes a lot of power. Now here all the peripherals are inside the same chip because of that there is no or very low inter-chip communication so the power consumption is less and performance is usually quite high again because all the circuitry is in the same chip, so it can... SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S SoC, Vivado, ILA‐S, ILA “Programmable System on a Chip “S So, the probability of people hacking during inter-chip communication or side channel attacks the chances lower.

Those are the main advantages of SoC. It comes with some disadvantages also. One major issue is a single point of failure. Even if you damage a small portion of this SoC, you will have to replace the entire chip. If you are using separate chip for building the entire system, if one chip's got bad, you have to replace only that chip. But here even if you damage one small portion, you will have to replace the entire chip so that makes it a single point of failure. Another issue is the high initial investment. Okay? So it's again a high level of integration.

So the initial design and manufacturing costs, it's quite high actually. and again because of it's a very complex circuit, very complex chip, the time and investment on verification and testing is much higher than going for discrete implementation. Now this is a typical design flow for SoC, it basically involves development of the SoC as well as the programming of the SoC. So you can see on the left side we have a hardware subsection going and on the right side we have software. So SoC again plays a major role in so called the hardware-software co-design approach that means your system contains both hardware and software and they are not developed completely independently, they run in parallel and we have certain check points where

Here we make sure there is proper coordination between the hardware development and the software development, which we call as hardware-software code design. We'll learn more about it in the course as we go forward. So again I'm not going to explain each and every step because we will be practically doing most of them. So basically you will have hardware design, hardware simulation, prototyping, then software Design, Software Testing, Application Software, then the integration and final testing. So in this particular course we are not going to build our own SoC of course in a university and even when that's not possible we are going to use a special kind of SoC and we will not

be going for production of our custom SoC okay so we'll be concentrating on this portion So we'll be doing both hardware part as well as software part. Okay, not all this much. Now again when we talk about SoC there are two kinds of SoC's so I'm calling the first type as the traditional SoC and these are similar to our Ascii and on these SoCs the circuit inside the SoC is burnt or implemented at the time of manufacturing itself So all the SOCs I mentioned before, the Snapdragon or Apple Bionic, they are all traditional SOCs.

You cannot change the circuitry inside the SOC. Now that doesn't mean these SOCs are not reprogrammable you can of course reprogram by using software so you already have the circuit you already have processors GPU you can control them with the help of software. Now, they have certain advantages. Specifically their throughput is quite high and the power consumption is less. The disadvantages are if you want any modification to the circuitry, okay? If you want to do some upgrade, you will have to redesign the entire chip, you will have go through the entire testing phase again which may be quite expensive.

Now, these kind of chips they make sense when we go for large production. So the arguments are similar between the development of ASIC and the development of FPGA where ASIC makes sense, where FPGA makes sense, similar argument. So traditional SoC's they make sense if you're going for mass production. Now if you're not going for mass-production, if you need SoC's for small scale application then it makes sense to go for so-called programmable SoC. In programmable SoCs, the Part of an SoC or part of the IC is pre-built such as the processor core and the remaining portion of the chip can be used by the consumer or end user to implement his own circuit.

So that's why we call them as Programmable SoC. And usually, the part of the SoC which can be programmed by the user is an FPGA fabric. So you have one chip and inside this single chip, you have part of the chip which is fixed which cannot be modified and you have part of the chip, which can be modified. And the part which can be modified they will have the FPGA architecture which we discussed in the last lecture. So there are again advantages and disadvantages exactly same as the comparison between ASICs and FPGAs.

So usually the performance is slightly lower, but from development time point of view or from risk point of view it makes sense to go for PSOCs or program on SLC when you need a small scale production. Now, when we go with SLC design in general or with PSOC, the current trend is to use so-called IPs for designing your system. So in IC design, the term IP stands for intellectual properties, not our internet protocol. Okay? So the idea here is similar to software development. So you might have seen in software development, you do a lot of code reuse. You'll be using the code written by other people. You may have either access to the source code or you may have access to precompile

So following the same concept here, the idea is you reuse the hardware either developed by yourself or developed by third party. So this is a very simple example of how to do it. So I will show you how to do that. So let's take a look at the first part of the code. So we So the idea is you reuse the hardware either developed by yourself or developed by third parties and we call these hardware modules, hardware blocks as IPs, hardware IPs And they usually come in three fly-aways. First one is called hard IPs So hard IPs are basically IPs which are built into the chip So you can use that hardware block, but you cannot change that hardware block.

So a good example is the processor called Inside an SoC or the processor called inside a PSO, program SoC they come as hard IPs so you cannot modify them, you can just use them. Next one is called a soft IP in this case the IP developer he'll be giving you the source IAP, IAP, HDL language, instead they will be providing you a netlist. You have seen netlist in last semester so you'll be doing netlist in AD format or one of the custom netlist format which you cannot decode and find out what is actually happening but the implementation tool can understand what this netlist is describing it will be able to interface this particular netlist with your custom

So provided you have the netlist and you know what are the inputs and outputs from this particular IP. So in our course we will be extensively using this IP based development. Now let's discuss about Xilinx, Zynq. So Xilinx it is a very popular piece of programmable SoC and for our course we'll be using this particular chip. So Xilinx, they call them ZYNC, AP SoC, all programmable system-on-chip which is basically a system-on chip so it's an integrated circuit which looks like this. Now to use it we need a development board also so the development board that we are going to use is called ZedBoard so this is the board and you can see this particular SoC is...

So, we have a lot of different things. We have a lot more information about the Vipin Kizheppatt, and also some other things that we are getting here. In addition to that there are a lot of peripherals here available again. I will be explaining them later in another lecture, the Zed Development Board. So just keep in mind the term Zynq, Zynq SoC or in some cases you will also find a literature they are called hybrid FPGAs. So it has an FPGA inside as well as a processor core. So that's why we call them hybrid. Let's look at the architecture of Zynq in bit more detail. So this is what is inside the chip, okay, words I view. The chip is mainly divided into two parts. So the blue color here that

is actually a built-in processor, processor cores. It is a hard IP, that means you cannot So you cannot change this portion of the chip and this portion of that chip is called processing system or we always refer it as PS. So whenever you hear PS, remember it stands for processing system. It is a part of the Zynq chip. It is hard IP. It contains processor and you cannot change the circuit in this part but of course you will be able to program this processor. SoC. Now the remainder of the chip, this big area, it is called Programmable Logic or PL, okay sorry, there's a typo here I'll correct it, this part is called PL, Programmable Logic and it is basically an FPGA fabric or it follows the architecture of an FPGA.

So you can build any digital circuit that you wish in this portion of the chip. And you will see there are some interfaces between PS and PL, and these interfaces follow so-called the AXI standard, advanced extensible interface standard which is a standard developed by ARM for communicating between microcontrollers and Perference, again details we will discuss. But the main takeaway is you have PS here, you have PL here, this part you cannot change, the hardware you cannot change but you can program the processor in this part and this part you can implement any custom hardware, digital hardware that you want and PS can communicate with the hardware in PL through These interfaces through the AXI interface.

This is a little bit more details, it's exactly what I mentioned. So you have PS here inside PVS, you have processor that are other peripherals also it also has built-in memory inside this PS portion and this processor can run your simple operating system. It can actually run Linux kernel also it can run application we will be writing in lab in C or C++ we will write, and hardware drivers also. All those things will be running in the processor. In the PL Park you have your custom peripherals sitting here and the processor can communicate with these custom peripherals through this AXI interface.

Now this is a comparison between Zynq implementation and other way you can develop your system. You can either go for ASIC, of course you know what it is, application-specific integrated circuit. ASSP stands for Application-Specific Standard Processor. So again, this is another technique of developing custom solution. Here what you do is you develop a processor and it has instructions. So we have seen in the computer architecture course every processor has a set of instructions. So in ASSP, you will develop instructions specific for the particular application for which this processor is targeted for.

So if you're developing a processor for image processing, you'll have special instruction. For example, you can have an instruction for multiply and accumulate, okay? Or you can have a special instruction for RGB to grayscale conversion. Okay, so we have specific instructions for that specific application, that is what, ASSP. And to chip solution you build your circuit using multiple chips, discrete or you go for Zynq. Whatever, add it, decide to enter this, it's showing. It seems like it's better to go with Zynq in most cases.

Again this slide is taken from Xilinx who is the manufacturer of Zynq so take it with The assault of pinch again, but of course So, first the risk factor it makes sense. The risk is much less when you go for SoC, a programming SoC and the time to market is also quite less. It's flexible and it is scalable. But again let me repeat the major drawback will be the size of the circuit that you can implement within the Zynq chip. So it is limited by how much resources, how much CLPs, how much lookup table, how much flip-flops are available within the chip.

That restricts how big your circuit can be within this chip. So if you look at the circuitry inside Snapdragon or Apple Bionic, It is so complex that you may not be able to fit all those circuits inside a Zynq chip. So that's the major disadvantage. Now again, slide from Xilinx what are the major highlights of ZYNC and as I mentioned before it has processor inside these are ARM processors actually so it has a dual core, Cortex A9 processor okay and it has lot of other peripherals also in the PS part and it is tightly integrated with PL, it has a flexible array of IEL.

Now this is a closer view of the PS part of ZYNC, okay so this is an expanded view of this portion PS and again you don't have to remember the details but good to know that the PS part It has two ARM processes, so you can see ARM Cortex-A9 here, ARM Cortex-a9 here, so it has two processors called Cortex-A 9, and they have their own cache memory separate. Each processor has a dedicated FPU, stands for floating point unit. These are special circuits which are used for doing floating point arithmetic. floating point in IEEE representation, they are much complex. So there is dedicated hardware for processing those.

It also has memory controller you can see it has DDI and PDDR memory controller and you can put external memory to the chip. It has on-chip memory. In addition to that on-chip memory, you can expand the memory by adding external chip and these are the controllers for the external chip. Here you can see a bunch of peripherals again available. There are two USB controller, two Ethernet controller, GPIO, UART controller, CAN controller, I2C controller, SPI controller. So these different communication standards you will be covering in the embedded lecture, what is SPI2C, TAN, UART etc. Basically these are all used for communicating with other peripherals outside the chip. So for the time being that is enough this is the view

of the PL so here you can see there is a gap here this is where PS is sitting remaining In addition to CLBs, more than a FPGA they have two more basic building blocks actually which I skipped in the first lecture. BlockRamps, DSP slices, BlockRamps are very small memory blocks, they are small RAM, the capacity is usually 4 kilo bits or 9 kilo bits. Very small. DSP, they are dedicated multipliers. So if you want to build small memories or multiplayer circuit inside an FPGA, usually We won't use CLBs because you will have to use a lot of CLBs to make a memory.

Instead of that, it can use these small memory units and combine them to build a larger memory. We'll be doing it in lab. Similarly, if you want to build multipliers inside an FPGA, we won't be using CLBs to implement the multiplier. We will be usually using or rather the software tool that we are going to use. It will be using this DSP slices to implement them. So of course you can use CLPs to implement memory as well as multiplier but it is more efficient to use block RAMs and DSP slices to do it. Now this is again, you have seen the slide in the previous lecture, this is the flow plan SoC, so you can see what is inside the chip. So this big black area, this is the PS where

the processor and the peripherals are sitting. And this large area it is the PL which is an SPGA fabric. And these two portions they are interfaced through so called the AXI interface so that they can communicate with each other. Now there are three different use cases where you can use Zynq. So in the first case, you can use only the PS part of the Zynq and you can have a pure software implementation of the system. You're not going to use your own custom hardware. Okay? So you're not going to touch the PL part, you use the ARM processes inside the PS part. Now it doesn't make much Zynq was a few hundred dollars. If you want to implement something purely in software,

you can buy microprocessors or microcontroller very cheap. Maybe for five or ten dollars you can buy good microprocessors. So no need to go for Zynq. Second case is you can use only the PL part of Zynq and implement your custom hardware and don't touch the PS part. That means your system is purely custom hardware based, purely hardware based. Now again this doesn't make much sense if you want pure hardware implementation You can just go and buy an FPGA, a traditional FPGA which is much cheaper than Zynq And the third scenario is your system is composed of both software as well as hardware So you have some software in your system running in a processor and you have some custom hardware. So the software can be implemented in the PS part

and the hardware can be implemented on PL part and they can communicate with each other. And this is the scenario which actually makes sense. So Zynq is again used in cases where your system is composed of both software and hardware, that's why it is quite popular in software hardware core design approaches. That's all in this lecture, we will have more details in the next SLIP,
