Hello, today we will have our first practical example using the ZYNC platform. So you are going to use the ZedBoard, okay? The board I guess all of you have. Now ZedBoard it is a community developed board. This board is not officially from Xilinx. It was developed by FPGA community, people who are interested in developing FPGA boards. There are official development boards from Xilynx. We have them in LAF. They are quite high end ones. So if you're interested in doing research work on Zynq platform or FPGAs in general, we'll be using them for this lab purpose. We'll be using ZedBoard. So when you open the package, we'll finding the board, ZedBoard now let me clarify this. Zynq is the name of the

That's why you are seeing very few of them in the lab. We hope we'll see some processor development kits and you will see there are several types of chips on the development kit. You have RAM, ROM, IU everything sitting as description. So here that is not the case. Okay so on this board we have the Zynq. Then in addition to that you can see memory chips here. It is 512MB DDR3 memory. So actually this chip has internal memory Okay, it has internal RAM, but they have provided additional external memory. Now the controller for this memory is also integrated into this chip Now there are other peripherals on the chip, so as you can see there is a VGA interface and HDMI interface for connecting to display. You have Ethernet interface for

connecting with internet these four ports are for audio processing you have line in mic in line in out and HPH out these are for audio processing. This interface is the programming interface, so you will be using this interface for sending FPGA pitch streams as well as the software executable into the Zynq chip. This is the power supply we'll be using 12 volt DC power supply for Zynq. On this side you can see a JETI interface, so this is the interface used for communication between your ZedBoard, and PC. This interface is for programming, this interface is for serial communication.

So if you want to send and receive any data between your PC and ZedBoard, you can use other interfaces. You can use the Ethernet interface but the easiest one is to use this interface, UART interface, you will see asynchronous receiver transmitter interface. So the details of this is a USB slave interface, USB slave interface SoC, we have 7 push buttons here. On top of these slide switches you have 8 LEDs, then you have an OLED also, organic LED. Ok? So this can be used as inputs and output. Ok? Then what else? Ok, here you can see a big connector here, this is called an FMC connector, FPGA-Mazan.

If you are interested to find out more, but for starting our lab this much information is enough. Now one thing I would like to mention is Zynq is not the name of a specific chip, it is the name of family of chips okay so there are several chips coming under Zynq family. The particular one we are using here is XZ-020, that is this chip. It is a not very low end, it is a medium type SoC So there are higher versions which have more logic capacity, lower versions also which has lower capacity So depending upon the logic capacity, depending upon the number of pins, for example this chip has 484 pins actually. You can't see it on the back side because of the sticker otherwise

you can see the pins here which looks like all grid array so this has 484 pin. So depending upon the logic opacity and the pin number we have different chips coming under the Zynq family. This is a medium end chip. Okay, so let's support the board. In addition to that, you'll also get the power supply for the board. And you will connect it here, 12V. And you need two micro USBs, one for programming. So one you will be connecting here, which is the programming interface next to the parser play And unfortunately the board comes with only one micro USB So for communication, for sending and receiving data, we need one additional micro USB Which you should be connecting here The USB interface we are not going to use at least this semester

OK, that's it. So this one you will connect your first supply, the USB will connect to your computer. So the drivers for the programming and USB interface they should be automatically getting installed. If they are not getting installed we'll install them manually but most of the computers there won't be any issues, and you can use them automatically. Now on the board there are a lot of jumpers, you can see here there are 5 jumpers, there is one jumper here, there's one jumper here. Never ever change the position of these jumpers, keep them as such, don't change their position because they do certain configuration of the board if you change them sometimes you will find like board is not functioning.

OK, so remember to keep them in the position. And when you power on the board, we have a switch here also. Make sure this green LED is turned on for power supply. If it is not turning on there's something wrong with your power supply. OK, so that is the basic introduction to the power supply. Now to do this you need certain software. So when you install Vivado in your computer, actually three softwares get installed. One is Vivado, like this one, 2017.4 I guess that's the version you have. Another software is Vivado HLS, this one and the third one is SDK, software development kit.

You will be using this Vivado software when you use the P-TEL part. Vivado HLS is used for converting C-code into VITLOG or VHDL, this industry we won't be using it. And SDK will be used for writing programs for the processor part. Okay so today we'll be using only the PS part. So go ahead and take the SDK. So, in Eclipse environment or for Xilinx SDK, first thing that you need to do is to choose something called a workspace. So here there is no special concept of project. What you have is workspace so all the files that you use for particular projects will be stored in this workspace which is basically a directory.

So remember to have separate workspace for separate projects. Otherwise every file will be stored in the same folder and it will be confusing later. And you can keep it wherever you want and by default, it will store and see users and your username. So let me call it HelloWorld as the name of my workspace. So he'll create a folder called HelloWorld here on this part. and all the files will be stored there. OK? OK, and say create. OK. So this is the welcome screen. And what you have to do is you should click on create an application project or you can go to file and choose new application project.

That's what you should do. Remember we are writing only the software today, only for the PS part. Now you can give some name to the project. So following the tradition, this is our first program for software will be our Hello World program. Okay, so I'm going to call my project also Hello World and this option is check use default location that is your workspace Here you have to choose the operating system that will be used by the ARM processor in ZYNC. If you drop down, you basically have three options. There is Linux, there is standalone and there is FreeRTOS.

Now Linux I guess you have some idea what it is. Standalone is a very primitive operating system sometimes that's also called a bare metal operating So it gives the minimum support, it gives some interrupt handling, some IO operation, but it doesn't support multitasking or multiprocessor operation. Very basic support actually. FreeRTOS is a real-time operating system so at least for this course, at least at this point of time we will be using the standalone operating system. This will be the operating system running inside ZYNC.

Okay, so choose standalone. Here you have to choose the hardware you are going to use. At this point you should choose this one, Zed hardware platform predefined. Later we'll be changing it that time I'll explain you what this hardware platform exactly means. So remember one thing, if you are using only the PS portion of ZYNC, that means you are not going to use the FPGA part of the chip. You should always choose this option. If you are going to use the FPGA also for developing your hardware, we will use it differently. I will show you at that time.

Okay so for the time being, choose that hardware platform predefined. Here you have to choose which processor core you are using, again remember ZYNC it is a dual core processor, ARM processor So this is the first processor Cortex-A9 underscore 0, this is Cortex-A 9 underscore 1 and stand-alone it doesn't support multi-processor At one point of time you can choose only one processor, okay so you can choose either of them Let's choose the first processor, which language you are going to use. And if you're using standalone, you should write your code A, then C or C++.

Okay, so we'll prefer C at this point of time. So choose C. And again, VART support package. What it is I will explain to you later. It automatically created VART support packages or BSP called your project name underscore BSP. So keep it as such. Click Next. Here you can either start your project from a template or you can start fresh from an empty project. So you choose an empty application and choose Finish. OK, so this is the screen you are going to get. Again, go ahead and find it. Those were no Eclipse. On the left, you have the Project Explorer.

There you have this folder, your project name. Under that, you have a source folder. Under that, all your C sources will be stored. At this point, we don't have any C source. That's why it is empty. This is the so-called the board support package. This is the so called harder platform for the time being. You ignore these two, there will be always here and we are going to concentrate on the source folder. So let's write our first code. So you right click source, choose new and choose source file, see source file. Okay?

Source file. And I am calling again this as hello world dot C. So remember to put the extension.c here, it doesn't add it automatically, you don't want to put it, and he creates an empty C5 for it. Now traditionally when you write Hello World this is, you write I guess, you write hashing.h, main, printf, and here also it's perfectly fine, you write your code, you save your code and your code will be automatically compiled and linked because by default here under project option there's an option build automatically click that means whenever you change anything in your source code and you save it either control or click here it'll automatically compile your code.

If there is any syntax error when you compile it will come here, number 3 so you can see What the error is, the compiler will give you the error here. So go ahead and correct it and see it again, and he'll recompile it. That's it! So we have done our first project. Now let's go back to the workspace and see what actually happened there. So my word space was under C, uses Vipin, I guess, Verdo, HelloWorld. So this was my word space, so you'll see lot of files are created, that's where it's at, each project keep it in separate word space.

So the interesting thing here is your project name, under that there will be source folder and your source code.c file is actually saved here, you can see here Now there is another folder called the debug folder, okay? And if you open debug folder, you'll see a file called your project name.elf And this is the file which will be sent to the processor from your computer for executing it on the board. So, this file you will send it through the JETAG interface to the Z-Board to the ARM processor inside the PS of Zynq.

And the processor will run this program and you should be able to see the Hallelujah print. OK, so remember ELF file, executable link format. You can look up in internet how this file looks like. It's a binary file. So this is similar to the EXE file in Windows which is used for executing on a Windows platform and in this platform So, you can see that the output is an object file. So traditionally when you write C code what happens is you write your C code, you compile it and you execute Okay, and the compilation linking and execution everything happens on the same system on the same computer Yeah, that is not the case here. You are writing and compiling your code in a PC environment

Then the code gets executed on a different environment. You are running in a and you can see the writing in a Windows environment here, but your code will be executed using an ARM processor, which is a separate system. So this is called a cross compilation. So here basically you are doing a cross compilation that means your compilation and execution they are happening on two different systems and if you go to the console you can actually see this is the compiler used This is a GCC compiler again for ARM environment.

Okay, and this is the one used for compilation. This is the compiler he takes the.c file and he creates the.o file then the linker comes here it creates the.of file and gives you the.elf file which is the file executable. So make sure there are no errors before you try to send your code to the processor. Make sure there are not errors, if there are warnings make sure that they're critical warnings or you can just ignore those warnings. Once you have done this much we are ready so our board is already powered up.

What is left is connecting the two USB interfaces to the computer, so connect both of them. Now here I have written print of Hello World, so where my print will come out. So remember ZedBoard? It doesn't have any screen. There are HDMI and VGA interfaces for connecting to monitor, But how can you control a monitor from ZedBoard or Zynq? It's an altogether different challenge. So all the print statements that you use here, the output from this print statement will be sent using the UART interface. So remember this board I showed you that's the interface called UART, universal asynchronous receiver and transmitter which is one of the most popular

interface for serial communication, more details you will see in your lecture. So through that interface ZedBoard will send this output to your computer. Now you should have some software here which can accept that information and display it on the screen okay and the software that we are going to use to do that is called Teratom so you should also install Teratom if you're using and you should choose start a term and go to serial and it will highlight one of the serial ports, comports. After that you should go to setup option, choose serial port and the speed option you should Choose 115200, okay. This is actually called board rate, speed actually what speed means

is something called a board rate again details you'll see in your lecture and the speed at which the board is going to send data is 115200 bits per second so the rate at which the body sending should match with the rate at which your computer If these two numbers are not matching, you will see G-Press should get printed on your screen. So make sure it is always 115200. Make sure this much is set. Now whenever board sends any information, that information will come on the screen. Fine. Now let's come back. Now you have to send that.

So, you can use this to application debug because we are using standalone OS, local hardware platform you don't have to change any of them keep all of them default then you should go to application option and you need to choose which processor we are going to use this processor for execution so click it and make sure under application your ELF file So we are going to use hellowind.elf, fine? So remember this step, this step you have to do only once for every project, okay? You just do it once and click here, apply and choose run.

When you choose run what is going to happen is that ELF file will be sent to the port and So here you can see the progress, okay? And make sure it reaches 100% and you should be able to see this print, more script, this export, so-and-so. Make sure you see this much that means he has successfully sent your ELF file to the ZedBoard. Okay if this print is not coming something has gone wrong we need to check what happened. Once this happens, if I take my serial terminal, I can see the hellowield is here. So from where this hellowield comes from, this print is actually coming from the processor inside Zynq.

He's sending it through the UART interface and that information comes to my computer and it is captured by TATA and he is displaying it here. Now, if you want to run it again, next time onwards, you just click this Run button. You don't have to choose again Run Configuration. He remembers it. You just have to click it once or drop it down and choose this option which we already created. Okay? And he will say debug is already running. That means the processor is already running Do you want to re-launch? Yes. And again he will send the ELS and he will again see hello.

So each time you click this button, let me see one hello world print here. Now if the speed we choose 115200 instead of that if I choose 9600 That means the computer is expecting data to come at 9600 bits per second Actually the board is ending at 115200 let's see what happens Run it again Nothing got printed OK? Because he couldn't find the data. Now let me choose a value close to this, okay, let me choose this one and try to run again. Okay, this is what you will see. Okay it will show some gibberish, it doesn't make sense and why it is doing like that you'll again learn in the lecture basically the speed at which the transmission and disruption happen should

match. You should always choose the speed as 115200. That's it, so this concludes our first practical experiment.
