Hello all, welcome to our second video on software development targeting Zynq platform. This is a continuation of what we discussed in the previous video so I am starting with our hello world example. So first thing I want to discuss is some of the constraints that you are going to face when you develop software targeting embedded system. In traditional software environment you are targeting very powerful computers generally PC's or server class machines. These machines they have very powerful processor, their main memory is quite large several gigabytes and they have very large secondary memory maybe several terabytes but when you are targeting an embedded system that is not the case so

let's take the example of ZedBoard itself. So the processor available here is a Cortex-A9 The main memory available to you is only 512MB. Currently we don't have any secondary memory but ZedBoard is capable of having SD card, which can be used as a secondary memory, which is actually 4GB, what you get with the box. So you have lot of constraints here, that means your program size should be quite limited because your main memory size is quite limited. limiter and you should write your code very efficiently such that it can be executed by this VIC processor in an efficient manner.

So these are some of the challenges that you're going to face when you target an embedded platform. Now last time I mentioned, this is how we write Hello World program traditionally in C code, and traditionally you are targeting a standard PC. And everything works so you don't find any difference when the core is running on a computer or on a Z platform. Now, the issue here is the size of the executables generated from this program is quite large. So let's look at the ELF file. So I showed you where this file is in last video. It is This is 158 kilobytes. So a small program such as Hello World is taking 158 kV. Maybe if you use a C compiler for your computer and write this Hello World, I guess most probably it

is smaller than this. Now one major reason for this is so-called static linking, the so-called Dynamic Linking. Okay, so let me try to explain this. Most of your traditional software they are using so-called dynamic linking. So let me take the example of Hello Well and explain it. So in your program you have the printf function okay? Now the code for printf is not written by you and you are told if you're using printf just use this header file and magically everything The head of file, SDIO.h, it doesn't have the code for printf. What SDIO.H has is the declaration for printf. It gives the name of the function and what kind of arguments printf is going to take. That's all the information here. Now when the compiler compiles your code, what it does is, it checks for printf, it checks whether this function is declared in your program, no. Then he will check whether it is declared in stdio.h, yes. So your program gets compiled. No compilation errors are generated. Now after compilation comes the linking stage. It is during linking that the code for printf gets linked with your code. Okay? So there is There is a.O file generated after compilation, the object code for your program. That.O object file will be linked with the code for printf which is already compiled and stored somewhere in your computer with your object code and you get the final executable.

Now this linking process can happen in two ways. In the first way, okay as I mentioned there's a.O for your code, there's a dot O file for print of already somewhere, these two gets compiled by the linker and you get a single executable,.exe or.elf or.bin file. And this is what we call as So, so this is the code corresponding to your program. The other method is this linking does not happen during the linking I mentioned before. This linking happens when your program runs. So again he compiles your code and there will be a reference to the printf function and the code for printf is already compiled and sitting somewhere in your computer, that code doesn't get linked with your program.

So the code for printf is sitting separately, your code is sitting separately. And when the program executes, then the program runs and the processor has to execute the function code corresponding to printf that already compiled code for printf gets executed. So in Windows environment, that is usually done using a DLL file, dynamically-linked file. Or in a Linux environment, we usually do it using a shared object file, shared library file. Now this dynamic linking helps in reducing your code size. Why? Because if you are doing static linking, every program that is using printf will have the code corresponding to printf in its executable because they are combined statically.

If we are using dynamic linking, the code corresponding to printf doesn't have to be part of your executable. That is sitting separate, your code is sitting separate and during run time, your code runs and whenever the processor has to print, he runs the code for printf then it comes back to your program and it executes the remaining code. So, dynamic linking greatly helps in reducing the code size. Now in an embedded environment, again depending upon what kind of operating system you are using, dynamic linking may not be possible. For example we are using the standalone OS here which is a very primitive operating system. You cannot do dynamic linking. That means you will have

to go for static linking. That is why your code size is quite large. So this 158 KB, it didn't can come from simply by writing these many lines. It became that big because this executable has the code for printf embedded inside that, that's why it is that big. In your traditional C code with this executable, your EXE file, it might not have the code corresponding to The code corresponding to printf is sitting somewhere else and only during execution these two gets linked. So what can we do for reducing our code size here?

So in most cases the embedded development platforms or the software development platform for embedded systems they give additional functions which are much simpler and which takes less amount of memory. For example, in this particular example instead of printf function I am going to use simply so called the print function. I'm just writing print hello well instead of printf. Now there is no function called print in standard C library. There is no function called print declared in SDDI or dot H. So if you do it in a PC environment, if you use ILA, ILA, Now here if I do it, it won't give an error but it is definitely saying giving a warning saying the function print is not declared. Yes you didn't declare it and this function

is also not declared here. It is actually declared inside a header file called Xil underscore Print of Tautage. Now you will encounter lot of header files and functions starting with Xil underscore in Xilinx SDK because these are Xilinx functions and Xilinx header files, so they put the prefix Xil to indicate that. Okay now your code compiles perfectly. Now if you check the code size, now it is 156 kV before... So, you are basically saving 2 kilobytes actually. But remember you are saying 2 kilobyte for one print statement okay so your program may be having several tons of hundreds of print statements so you will be saving quite a lot of memory if you use print statement instead of print F statement.

Now of course there are certain restrictions. You can use print statement only for printing constant strings. If you want to print, say, a variable, an integer variable like this, the syntax is perfectly fine for printf but it doesn't work with print, okay? So print take, can take only constant strings. This is giving a syntax that are saying too many arguments. Print can stay, take a single argument which is a constant string. Now, for printing variables we have another function called Xil underscore printf. This function is also declared in the same header file so keep the header file here and write it like that and it compiles and if I run the code you can see 5S printed here.

Okay, what is the code size here? Let us check it. It is 157 KB. Now instead of using Zilprinterf, if I were using Ziltrinterf, it is 196 KB, it's quite large actually about 40 KB difference is there. Okay so there are benefits of course for using Zilbrinterf instead of simply Zilprin. Printoff. Now the limitation of SIL Printoff is it can print integer, it can print characters, it can print strings but it cannot print floating point number. So if you have a statement like this for printing floating point number nothing gets printed. So you cannot use SIL PrintOff for printing floating points or double type of variable but it can be used for integers So the thumb rule is if you want to print only strings, constant strings, use print.

If you want to bring anything except floating points or double variable, use Zilprinterf. If you have to print 14 point number, use Sprinter.
