Hello, in the past two videos we discussed about Xilinx SDK and how to use SDK for implementing your custom software targeting the processor core inside the Zynq chip. So in this tutorial we are going to use the PL part, the program logic, the FPGA fabric inside the ZYNC chip and see how to implement your custom hardware on that FPGA part. Ok, so remember this is our ZedBoard. This is what is our target platform and in the last two tutorials we have used the UART interface of ZedBoard for communicating with your PC.

Now every other interface on this board whether it be HDMI, VGA, FMC card, the slide switches push or LED, you cannot control any of them directly from the processor because none of them are actually interfaced with the processor. All other interfaces they are connected with the PL part of the chip so you cannot access them directly from a processor. The only way to access them from the processor is through the FPGA part which we will discuss later. So today we are going I am going to discuss how to access the slide switches and LEDs from the FPGA path.

We are not going to use the processor part for this project. Now, the aim of this project is to use the LEDs to indicate the position of the slide switches. So what I need is whenever I turn on a particular slide switch, The corresponding LED should glow, when I turn off the LED, sorry the slide switch, the corresponding LED should turn off. Now there is no connection between the LED or the slide switches on this board but both LEDs as well as slide switches are connected to the Zynq. OK, so some of the pins of this chip they are directly wired to these LEDs as well as to the slight switch. So what should basically happen is when I turn on the slight switch that high voltage will come to the chip and the chip should connect

That wire to the LED, that's it. So the LED will turn on or in a simpler way, this switch should be connected to this LED through the FPGA so that whenever turn on the switch, the LED is closed and whenever I turn off the switch, it turns off. So that is our hardware program for hardware. Now in order to implement anything on the FPGA fabric, the PL part you should use the Vivado software. Okay I have already opened it. Vivado is a very memory intensive software so you need to have minimum HGB RAM in your system to use it.

OK, so I recommend you to use our lab machines. Now once the window comes off, you go ahead and create a project either from the quick start menu or from the file tab until you get the Create New Window, New Project Window. You give an empty of projects, so let me call it simply LED control. specify where to save your project, so save it at a nice place so that you remember it later. And please try to save each project in a separate folder so that it is easy to find them later. Now next you have to choose the project type we are going to do an RTL project which I discussed in last semester. RTL project is basically you're going to describe you hard in one of the HDL VHDL or VHDL-O-H look, you are going to use the VHDL language this time.

So choose RTL project next. Now this is more like again the software development platform. So if you already have VHDL code written for your hardware, you can simply add those files here. If you don't have any file like we're starting now, you can just keep it as such and here you will choose your target HDL language, so we are going to use VIDLOG, not VHD in this type. So last semester we have seen some constraints regarding ASIC design like our SDC constraints. So this time also, we will have some constraint file and I will describe them later.

So at this time, I don't have any constraint files so click Next. Here you have to choose your target FPGA platform. Now remember Vivado is a SDK or development platform for FPGAs from Xilinx. So it will basically list all the FPGAs available and from this list you'll have to choose the particular FPGA that you are targeting. So remember on ZedBoard we have Zynq, Z020, 484, CLG 484-1 that is the FPGA part so you either find it from this list or the easiest method is if you're using ZedBoard is to go to Boards here, the other tab and choose ZBoard.

Now if you choose ZBoard, the software already knows what is the FPGA part used there. So this step is very important because the final bit stream generated by Vivado can be used for programming the particular FPGA that you choose at this step. Okay so remember to choose the right one. Click Next and Finish. Now, Vivado will create a project file which has an extension.xpr in the particular folder that you chose before Now this is the window you are going to get once the project opens up And Vivado is a pretty complicated software, it has lot of options actually So, before Vivado came, Xilinx used to have many software for FPGA development They used to have ISC software, then there was another software called Plannerhead, XPR, now

Vivado it combines all those software and give you a single software that's why it looks much more complicated. Now we will learn it by doing projects instead of trying to remember everything. So the window on this left, this left panel is called a project manager. This is where you change your settings and run the simulation, run synthesis etc. And this is the window where you can see all your source code in the sources panel. Here you will see some properties later when we use them. And at the bottom we have log and messages and the tickle console.

So Vivado it supports tickle language also which is a scripting language similar to Perl. Python, again if time permits we'll see it later okay so let's go ahead and start our first project. So the first step is to add or create a vidlog file to your project. So you go ahead and click this plus button or right-click and say add sources or under file you can choose a new file one of them okay so I prefer Add sources, Add or create design sources, Click Next Create file, Add or Create design sources, click Next Create file, Create file, give name to your file, LUD-CTRL.V Click OK, and click Finish Now using this window you can specify what are the inputs and output to your hardware

So that Vivado will give you a template for writing your code Okay, so we don't need the template. You can just click OK at this point of time And he will create the Vilog file for you It will be listed under design sources So go ahead and double-click And you can see Vivado, he has already put some header part here. He has filled the name of your module, he has put N module and again remember Vivado is an industry standard software. This is the one actually used in industries and that's why you see the information like the company name, engineer name etc which you are supposed to fill If you are using the software in an industry. Here also it is better if you fill them.

Okay, so I hope you remember Vipin Kizheppatt from our previous semester. So in Vipin log every piece of hardware is called a module. The module can be as small as a single gate or even a transistor or as big as a processor. So again following the software development concept in Vilog or HDL languages, they also follow a hierarchy SoC, Vivado, ILA, XSCT, XSct, ILA. So that's it. So you just list them here. So I'll say input 7 down to 0 to indicate there are 8 of them and switch and output 7 down to zero, LED. Okay? So as simple as that. Now in this portion between the interface specification and end module, you have to write the logic for your hardware.

So this is a very simple hardware, what you basically have to do is connect the switch with the LED so that when switch is high, LED is high and switch is low, LED is low. So it is simply writing assign LED equal to K, this is enough. So this logic will make the state of LED same as the state of switch So when you turn on switch, the lady will go, you turn off switch, the little will turn off. Now traditionally once you write your software, the next step is to run the simulation to make sure your logic works fine. So remember from last semester, the first simulation is called a behavioral simulation. You are not considering any of the timing information here, you're just checking

whether your logic is correct or not. So go to the simulation option under project manager and click run behavioral simulation, this is one of the advantages of Vivado compared to QATOS which you use for Intel FPGAs. Vivado comes with an integrated simulator so you don't have to install model sim separately and the simulator is as powerful as model sim and you can see the interface looks VIVIN, WAVINDER, WAVENDER, WVINDER, Let me give you a 5 in hexadecimal click OK and run for 10 nanoseconds You will see as soon as I give a5 to the input, the output also become a5 Now zoom in zoom out options they are again same as model sim If for zoom in or for zoom out you can use these icons

Let me give some other value from this constant, let's say 1 0 to input and click, output also equals 1 0 So here you can immediately see this is a pure combinational circuit, the output changes immediately with input It doesn't have to remember anything from the past which makes it pure combinational Once you are satisfied with the simulation you can close the simulator, you have to close here Not here, which will close Vivado. So just close here and create the simulation and come back to our previous window. Now the next step is synthesis. So during synthesis what happens is Vivado, he reads your code and finds out how to map your HDL description using LUTs, flip-flops and other basic building blocks of FPGA.

Okay? Like we discussed in our first lecture. So go ahead and click Run Synthesis here and click OK. Now synthesis will run. And you can see it will show here running synthesis and under log you choose synthesis and you can see all the log messages if there is any error or warning it will be listed here as well as it will come under messages here also okay so keep an eye on warnings now depending upon the complexity of your circuit synthesis may take a few minutes SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA- synthesized design will be open. So you might have seen it's showing initializing netlist, see netlist view. So like we discussed last semester the output of synthesis is a netlist

which is a graph representation of your circuit so the graph will basically show you the nodes in case of FPGAs the nodes will be the lattice of flip-flops and the edges will be the wires Now for our particular circuit, you can see this is our input, switch 7 down to 0, there are 8 of them, sorry, LED 7 down to zero, 8 LEDs. These are buffers again we discussed last semester, we need input and output buffers for current driving and the So you don't have to explicitly mention it in your code, Vivado automatically adds input buffers to all your input signals and output buffers to all the output signals by default.

Now you see what he actually did, so every input buffer is simply connected to an output buffer which is connected to an output pin. That's it. So basically our logic, it is not consuming any of the FPGA resources other than buffers and wires. It is not using any lookup table or any FIFO. Okay? Now if you go and click this Sigma button, you can still see The project summary and if you come down, you will be able to see what is the resource utilization, how many lookup tables and how many flip-flops are consumed by your design. It is not consuming anything that's why it is blank. The only resource it is consuming is input output pins. So your circuit needs 16 input output pins which is true, you need 8 input pins, you need eight

8 output pins which makes it 16. This particular FPGA has total 484 pins but out of 484 only 200 are available to you, remaining pins either used for VCC ground etc or connecting the capacitors etc so you can use only 200 pins out of the 484 pins. Now again traditionally the next step is to run the post synthesis simulation. So if you go to simulation and click on simulation, this option is highlighted post synthesis functional simulation again by ignoring timing information or post synthesis timing simulation which includes the timing information for propagation delays of flat, swift, fluff etc. But at this point of time the propagation delay for wires are not available because your design is not placed on router. Again, all guns are

similar to our SIC design. Okay but I'm not going to run post synthesis simulation because our circuit is so simple and confident that it will be working. The important thing next is called pin assignment. So again remember like I mentioned since we Vivado, Vivado, V Now he doesn't know to which physical pins these LEDs belong to or to which physical pins the switches are connected to because that is not a universal truth okay so to which pin these things are connected depends upon the particular PCB that we have SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA.

SoC, VDma, UART-on-Chip, UART‐SCT, ILA‐SCT. and either download the ZedBoard hardware user guide, okay, or do user manual and you just go ahead and search for LEDs, user LEDs OK, so this information you have to specify. To do that you need to first synthesize, then click open synthesis and then click open synthesis. And then you can see the Open Synthesis. Now on the top right corner here you have to choose IO Planning, Input-Outflow Planning. Now you can see a new window and this window is basically showing you the bottom side of the FPGA.

So these are all the pins here and you can see some of the pins they already have a ground symbol IAM, IAM, LED0, LED0, So if I try to give it to LED0, it will give an error because it's already assigned to one of them. So let me unplace it and give LED0 to T22. Now next one is T21, T21, next U22, T22, 21V22, 21B22, W2, W3, W4, W1, W5, W7, W8, W9, W9. W22U19, W40, OK? Same way you need to specify the position for switches also. Now if you mix up the pin number, you may find when you are sliding switch number 5 LED 4 is turning on.

If that is the injection, that is perfectly fine, you can do that also by manipulating and then we will be using this pin allocation. Okay? Now switches are also listed here. Switch 8 slide switches or dip switches, F22, G22, H22, H21, H18, H18. Okay, so we have assigned all the pins. Now one more important thing is specifying the input output standard. Now again, SPGs they are so flexible and they support multiple voltage standard for the output pin. Okay, so if you are using LEDs and switches, a good option is to use LVCMOS18, low voltage CMOS 18 or you can use LVC MOS 3.3 also. So this means the LED outputs will be 1.2 volt maximum. If you use 3.3, the output voltage going

LED, 3.3V maximum, so it doesn't matter which standard you choose here, all of them will work. Maybe we can choose LVCMOS, okay LVCMUS 80, that's enough. For switches also you have to choose the standard again let me choose LVC MOS 18. Now if you don't choose it later when you run Vivado, when you reach the last step when you do the bitstream generation It will give an error saying you haven't specified the IU standard. So, you should specify the IU standard although by default it shows a default standard of 1.8. Yes, so you should specify again.

Now once this much is done you can go ahead and save this information and you will get a So this message is basically saying the pin information that you just entered will be saved as a constraint file. Okay, so this is one of the constraints and we call it as a kind of location construct or pin constraint. Now this information will be saved in a separate file called an XDC file, Xilinx design constraint, which is similar to the SDC file, which we used last time. But Xilinx they are calling it XDC file, Xilinx Design Constraint.

Now if you click OK, you will get this window and Vivado is basically asking you to enter a name to the XDC file so you can see he already chose the file type as XDC and you just have to give some name to it, you can call it by whatever name you want. Again let me call it LED-Control there is no rule like the name of the module and name of constraint file should match but traditionally we keep the top file name top module name and the XTC file name that's the same okay you just save it now if you come to the source tab now you can see there's a folder constraints now and under constraint you can see LED-Control.XTC and it has the same information that you just entered through the GUI, but in a text format.

Okay? Now later when you do project now you don't have to go to the GUI and do it. You can just copy paste this information from here and you can just edit it here so this is very trivial information. You can see the name of the port here, the name of pin here and to which FPGA pin This should be mapped too, that's all. And also it has the information, the name of the pin and the I-E standard. That's it. That's all the information stored in the XTC file at this point of time. Later you will add other constraints also.

Same way we did for our IC design. This location constraint may not be present for IC design but we have other constraints there. But here whenever you do an FPGA design, whenever you have input-output pins coming in and going out of the chip, You should specify the location using ICLS-25. If you're using Xilinx FPGA, you should... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S If you are changing any of the constraints, there is no need to rerun the synthesis. But if you are changing anything in your Vilog source code, you should rerun the syntheses.

Since we have a very small design, it's fine even if you rerun synthesis but if you have a very huge design, I don't want to rerun my entire synthesis because I changed something ASIC DesignFlow, it has a placement step, it also has a routing step. So like we mentioned in our first video about FPGA design, placement basically determines which LUTs, which physical LUTs should be used for implementing your particular In our current example, there are no lats. So he actually doesn't have to do it. In the routing, he has to interconnect these lats as well as he has to connect the corresponding lats with the input output pin. Okay? So again in our particular example, he doesn't have too. In our example, he only has to connect

The input buffers with the output buffers. Okay, so he has to configure the internal switch boxes, some of the switch boxes, so that the particular input pins are connected with the particular output pins. So this is a very simple design, let's say it happened so fast. Now depending upon the complexity of your circuit again this may take several minutes to several hours or maybe a day or two. Once you have done implementation, again traditionally the step is to run a post-implementation function simulation and a post-inplementation timing simulation I'm not going to do it now because our design is quite simple maybe for our next design we will do it okay then choose generate bitstream which is the last step and during this step, Vivado will generate the final bit file which is used for programming your FPGA. So let me prepare my board. When you use SDK, you have to connect two micro USBs. One was for sending you a software ELA file and one was to the UART interface for communication. Now in this particular example, you are not using the processor, you are using only the FPGA portion. So there is no UART communication happening, so you don't need the second UART interface connected to your computer. You just have to connect the programming interface to your computer Now same programming interface is used for sending the ELF file as well as sending the BID file.

Okay, so he has the corresponding logic inside the chip which finds out whether this is a software targeting for the processor or whether this is a bitstream targeting the FPGA version and here it will do it accordingly. Now once bitstream generation is completed, you can open hardware manager either from here or if you miss from here You can go here and click open target and open hardware manager and click auto connect And now he will search for your board so your board should be powered up and the programming interface should be connected to the computer.

Right-click and choose program device or you can choose program device from here and he'll automatically find out the bitstream since they are all in the same folder and you can choose program. Once you've programmed your board note that one blue LED comes up this is called the DONE signal and whenever you program the FPGA This LED should turn on, okay? It should go. This shows like the FPGA part of the chip is successfully programmed. You can also see I have a programming cable here. I have the power cord here. Now our requirement was whenever I turn on a particular lip switch or slight switch The corresponding LED should turn ON, and you can see it is happening here.

So whichever switch is on the corresponding LED is turning ON. Now remember like I mentioned in the first lecture, FPGAs they are volatile in nature that means once you remove the power and give the power back, that blue LED is not there That means the program inside the FPGA is lost, so you have to reprogram it. So this concludes our first tutorial on Vivado.
