Hello and welcome to our next tutorial on Vivado. In the previous video, we saw how to do a combination circuit design using Vivado. So in this tutorial, we will be going to see how to design a sequential circuit. That means circuits switch with memory. That means they'll be using some clock signals and how to do such designs using Vivado So again I'm starting with a very simple design so my aim is to make a running LED display not exactly a display, just a running LED So what I need is suppose we start from this LED This LED will be on everything else will be off then this LED will turn on, this will turn off So you will feel like this LED is going in a circular fashion. Now one additional feature

I want to add is, I should be able to specify initially which LEDs should be turned on. For example maybe I want to turn on these two LEDs and my circuit should be able So, I will be able to switch both LEDs, two LEDs at a time on and two LEDs should be running in a circular fashion. Okay? That's my aim. So that initial state of LED I'm going to specify using these dip switches. So if I turn on these two dip switches, that means initially these two LEDs should be on then subsequently next two LEDs, next two LEDs so on and so forth.

So I will configure my initial status using these dip switches, then maybe I'll press this push button so that the circuit initializes using these two dip switches and when I release this button the LED should run around. Okay? So this button more or less acts as a reset signal to my circuit. So this is my reset, this is how I am going to specify my initial state and these are the LEDs which will be basically my output. Again these five push buttons they are also connected to the PL part of the chip and as we discussed in the previous video LEDs as well as the deep switches they are also already connected with the chip. Now one additional thing that we

So what I need is the clock which is actually coming from a crystal from the backside of the board, you can check it So ZedBoard comes with 50 megahertz onboard crystal So that external clock is running at 50 megaherz, so do keep it in mind Ok so I am starting from where we stopped last time So I'm going to start a new project, so I'll go and choose File and New Project, and the same wizard comes up. And I'm going call this as running LED, as my project name. Now remember your previous project is saved in this location, now if you directly create a new project at the same location all the files will get mixed up. So one way to avoid it is to click This option, create project subdirectory.

That means he will create a new folder with this name inside this folder and all the files will be saved in this subfolder. Okay so you can have a common place for all your Vivado projects and inside that common place each project is saved in separate directories. Okay so go ahead next, rtil project. I don't have any service, I don't If you don't have any constraint, you go ahead choose board, choose ZedBoard, Next and Finish. He is asking whether you want to close your current project? Yes. Ok now the new project comes up, so same as before I will choose add sources, I will choose create file and let me call it running LED.vca.

Now as usual you have to specify what are your inputs and output. Of course this is a sequential circuit, as I mentioned before the new status of the LED, which LEDs are turned on or which LEDs are off depends upon its previous state because we are doing a shift operation, circular shift operation essentially. So this is a sequential circuit, so you need a copy. SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. I need a reset, so input reset. Now I have those 8 slide switches which are giving my initial condition, so let me call init state and I also have output 7 down to 0 right? Okay now let's So this is the sequential, so you need always block, always set for such clock.

My requirement is if I press reset my output or the LEDs should be initialized with this init state. Else the new LED state is a right shifted version of the previous LED that means the rightmost Just LED, that means position 0 will become the leftmost and every other LEDs will be shifted right by one position. So basically this is how you do a right operation in VIT look. So this is by default means 7 down to 0, you don't have to explicitly say it, it is implicit when LED, LED7.0, LED7 down to 0 is LED0 concatenated with LED7.1, so remember this is a concatenation operation, so 7th LED will be same as 0th LED and 6th will be same as 7th, so on and so forth, so essentially this is a right shift operation.

Now remember our rule all the signals on the left hand side inside always block should be Vivado is already giving you an error here without running synthesis so that's a good feature of Vivado. So, you can keep your mouse here and it shows procedure assignment to non-register, LED is not permitted left hand side should be a reg integer time gen word type okay so it should be declared as reg type output reg 7 down to 0 LED. Now everything looks I'll erase, go ahead and save it and run synthesis. Now this design should be consuming some LUTs and flip-flops at least it should consume 8 flip-flop because we have 8 flip- flops whose outputs will be connected to the LED so we have a 8 bit

shift register which require 8 flip-flops. Now we have some initialization condition here, now depending upon how you are to address it, you may or may not require LUTs. One way is to directly connect this research signal to the synchronous input to those flip-flop if that is the case you don't need any additional LUT. If it is different let's see so he has and you can click Open Synthesis and we can look at the schematic of how the circuit looks like. Okay, this is how the circuit look like. You can see it is consuming some LUT. This is your clock going to the clock buffer.

Then all these are all these are flip-flops. Okay, FDRE they are all flip-flop and this is the clock input to the FIFO, and you can see the clock signal goes to all the FIFOs and there should be 8 FIFOs. In addition to that those LEDs are there which are used for initializing our DIFO. Now if you go to project summary click the Sigma and if you come down and you can look at the resource utilization. So it is saying your circuit Vocabulary, 8V-Flock out of 106000, 4Luts out of 53200, 18 input output pin because you have eight slide switches, eight LEDs, one clock one reset which makes it 18 and a clock buffer.

Because whenever you use a clock signal in your design a special buffer is connected to the clock input called the clock buffer or global buffer. Buff G stands for global buffer. Okay, and these FPGA they support up to 32 global buffer that means you can connect up to 32 different clocks but on this particular Z-Board we have only one onboard clock for the PL part. There are other clock going to the processor. Fine again at this point of So, enough time this is just an estimation. The real utilization will be available only after implementation.

Okay? So the next step same as before you have to do IO planning. So if by default IO planning is not selected choose IO planning and you start giving the package bits. So LED is 0, is T22, directly entering by looking at the board, this is T21, this is U22, this is 21, V22, W22U19, OK. And these are basically the slide switches. So let's enter their position in location, this is F22G22H22F21H90H18H17. I haven't run simulation for this design if you are interested you can go ahead and run it and check whether things are working fine Now one more, actually two more pins we have to enter. The one for clock and the one for reset. The one four reset I can again see from the board it is this

button I am going to use that you can use any of these push buttons actually or push buttons. I'm going to use this center one and it is P16. Now where the clock is connected, you cannot see it on the port, the particular pin where the clock is connected. So I have to go to the user manual, keep it handy, let me also download it and you just go ahead and search for clock in the user manual. and here it's given clock sources and you can see using dedicated 30, 34 and 33 megahertz clock but that is going to the processor and onboard 100 megahertz oscillator supplies the PL also I made a mistake last time so the onboard clock is not 50 megahertz it is 100 megaherts actually

So that is coming to pin Y9, okay? So you go to clock and choose Y9 point. So, Y9 is here. So you can see it is a special pin. You can see some pins are already in blue. These are the clock-capable pins. So the clock signal should be connected to only this special pin, clock-cap able pin because clocks are routed differently inside the chip. Again, Check back the first video if you don't remember, clock is a special signal so it has to be routed by minimizing the skew which we discussed last semester. So only few pins are capable of that so the clock signal should be connected to one of these pins.

Now as far as Zed is concerned this is a pre-manufactured board so you don't have any other choice, you should always choose Y9 as your clock signal source. If you are designing your own PCB, you can choose any of these pins to connect your clock. Okay so once you have done this much, change the IOS standard also, again going to choose LVC MOS18. So although it is given as default, you should manually choose LVC Mos18 otherwise bitstream step will give you an error. So LVC Mose18, LVC MOSE18 okay and go ahead and save.

So the same warning as before, he is going to create an XTC file, Design Constraint File. So you need to give a name to that so let me call it Running LED again and that is physical under constraints. Now when you are doing synchronous design, you need to provide one more constraint to So, to get into the software you need to specify what is the clock frequency that your design is running at. Again in this particular ZedBoard the clock is coming from a crystal which is running at 100 megahertz again by default the tool won't know that information even if you choose ZedBoard as your target platform you should explicitly specify it.

So that is the second kind of constraint. So the first constraint is pin constraint or location constraint, second one is clock constraint. Okay so again that information will be stored in the same XPC file. So you don't have to memorize the syntax what you can do is you can go to this one, Edit timing constraints under synthesis and there's an option here create Click the name of the clock, double click it, you give name of your clock, which I remember is clock, so subject again you give the same name clock or you can search for the name of the clock here and he will list if you don't remember the name of the clock of course you should be remembering it otherwise you can search

So, I will search for the name of the clock here, he will tell you exactly what is the name of the clock here and you can use that name. Okay? Now since I remember I am directly entering the name clock, here you can give the clock constraint basically what is the period and what is the duty cycle. We have 100 MHz so it is of course 10 nanoseconds is the total period of the clock and by Adjusting rise time and fall time, you can specify the duty cycle. So rise time 0, fall time 5 means the first level is 50% and negative level is 50%, which makes a 50% duty cycle.

And this clock is 50% duty cycles. OK? So choose it, press OK, and again save. and if you come back to your XDC file, if you open it again, you will see this additional line here, create clockp-ticket 10, clock-wayform 0.5 clock, okay? This is a timing constraint. So why this information is needed? So during the implementation stage, the tool has to decide how the flip-flops should be placed and how they should be routed. Okay so if you don't specify any clock requirement, The tool is free to place these resources whatever he needs. But if you have a clock constraint SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, ZSCT, ILA, ILA-SPF, XSCT, It doesn't matter how the tool places the resources, it might satisfy the timing requirement.

But when you have more complex design always you should keep the clock constraint so that the tool does a better job. Now if this much is done you can go ahead and implement it again previous warning synthesis out of date because I changed the constraint. I will go to design, run and choose force up-to-date since I didn't change any bitload source Now you can either click run implementation then followed by generate bitstream or you can directly click generate bitstream so here we'll run implementation first followed by bitstream generation and the process progress you can see either here or you can see it under Design Run tab here, so you can see it's currently running implementation.

Okay, so implementation basically for Vivado involves three steps, they are opt, place and route. Okay, so first step is opt he's trying to do further optimization to the netlist Then he will do the actual placement of LUTs and VIFLUTs, and finally he will root them together. Now he's running the placement. So once he finishes implementation, the actual resource utilization will be reflected here. See? So the estimate was 4 LUTs on 8 VIFLUps, but after Interplacement, it has become 4 LUTs and 16 flip-flop. It is double the number of VIFOs that we were expecting.

So most probably he's doing it to satisfy some, most probably he is doing registered application which we discussed last semester again for improving fan out. That might be happening. So same information you can see under project summary also. So if you close project summary, you reopen it by clicking the sigma signal here. And here you can see post synthesis estimate for 8 post implementation. This is not an estimate this is a real one 4 and 16. Okay now everything is implemented let's go ahead and connect our... OK, now I have connected my board. Let me program it. So choose auto-connect, program device from here and program.

OK, so as I mentioned before, blue LED shines. If I off, three switches in one position, you press this button and you can see that the LEDs are once I release them. OK, but what is it? You can see like all LEDs remain on always. But actually they are running around. I guess you remember our system is running at 100 megahertz and your eyes cannot distinguish that the LEDs are running around because of the persistence of vision. Right? So since things are happening so fast, you feel like all the LEDs are always on. But actually that is not So we need to bring the clock frequency down so that you can visually see the LEDs going around.

So we need to change our source code. So my requirement is the LED should switch in not very high frequency, it should be switching at a frequency at which I can visually perceive the LED states are changing. So let me put this constraint. LEDs should change state once every second, okay? Only after every one second they should change from one position to another position. Now there are several ways of doing it so let's try the simplest one. So one simple way is to use a counter and you count So you don't have enough clock cycles running at 100 MHz so that you consume 1 second and only after 1 second elapsed you will change the LED state.

OK, so I know my clock frequency is 100 MHz. That means Pd is 10 nanoseconds. So how many 10 nanosec, for how many cycles you need to get 1 second? So one divided by 10 nanosecon, just like 1 followed by 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. So only after these many clock cycles the LEDs should switch. This operation happens only once every 10 to the power of 8 clock cycles. So let's do it. So you basically need a counter for doing it. So how big the counter should be? The counter should be able to change from 0 all the way till this number. So we need to find out how weak the counter should be, how new bits should be there in the counter.

So let's try to find it out so I need to count 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 in decimal this is the corresponding number in binary okay so this is 32 bit so basically I need a 31-bit counter then only I can count So this is my strategy, I will use a counter, the counter starts from 0, it goes all the way till this. Once the counter reaches this value, I will switch the LED status, I will reset the counter back to 0 and it will again come from 0 to this one then after that I will again switch the LED state so on and so forth. So let's declare the counter, so we found out we need 31 bit, OK, so what the counter should do?

I am again going to use an orways block for such a block. So if counter becomes 12345678, counter should go back to 0, else counter can either write 1 or you can write 1 to be 1. Both are fine. If you like, you can also give a reset condition to the counter so that initially when I press the reset button, counter always starts from 0 but in this case it really doesn't matter. The first LED blinking, it happens very fast but later this condition will definitely happen. Corner may have some random value so it doesn't matter initially the period may be shorter but after the first LED switching it will definitely come back to zero then it will definitely change only 170 clock. So here I need to change this else condition because if you simply write else here, every post-age of the clock if reset is not pressed, do this. So we need to change it. Else if only if counter is this, okay? Only if counter reaches this particular value switch it. So that's it. Since you changed your source code, you have to run from synthesis so you have to go all the way from synthesis implementation and bitstream generation or you can directly click bitgen and all the steps will be run by Vivado. So if I go to Project Summary, let's see how my resource utilization will change.

And if you wish, you can close this hardware manager here which is used for programming so that you can get this window where you can look at the progress window. So currently he is running synthesis, so have to wait for a couple of minutes until he finishes. OK, my implementation is completed. So let me reprogram my board. Open hardware manager once again, open target, auto connect. OK now the board is reprogrammed. Now you can see the blue button is off. Now let me try once again, so I want to turn this LED on initially then just make one LED run around okay so I turn it on press the reset button this LED turns on I'm releasing the push button and now

you can see every one second that LEDs is shifting right. Now suppose I want alternate two LEDs So let me turn on this one and this one and press the reset. And once I release it, you can see two of them are shifting around. Okay? and that's our effort is to...
