Hello and welcome to our next tutorial on FPGA design using Vivado. So in the previous tutorial we have seen very simple design of both combinational logic as well as sequential logic using Vivado and Verilog HDL. So in this tutorial, we are going to attempt a little bit more complex design which will Compound the concepts from both combinational as well as sequential and maybe we can design some circuit which is of a bit better use than the running LED. So, we are trying to design a very simple voting machine okay so this is the architecture of the overall voting machine We are trying to design this machine can be used for competition between four candidates.

Now there are four buttons which can be used for casting modes for each candidate. Then there is a reset button, which will reset the overall system. And then there is one more slide switch here, which will set the mode of the voting machine. So let me try to explain what it is. So basically this machine has two modes, okay? If you put it in the voting mode, you can actually cast the vote. So before you start voting, the machine should be configured to voting mode and the people who are casting vote they can come and press the button against and the machine will store the vote casted against each candidate.

Now once the voting is over, to check the result this mode button should be changed to Result mode say. And after that when you press each button here, the machine is going to display the vote received by the corresponding candidate. OK, so this pattern will be deciding whether you are using the machine for voting or whether you are using a machine to check how much vote each candidate received. Now if you press the reset, the machine will erase all the votes against every candidate and everyone will have zero votes so that you can reuse the machine.

So it may look like a very dumb machine but at least we can start from this machine So basically it doesn't make sense to have the reset button and the mode button on the same machine. So practically in electronic voting machine usually these controls will be sitting on a separate port say which will be interfaced with this port and only specified people will be able to reset or change Now we are trying to prototype this voting machine using our ZedBoard, okay? So let me keep them side by side So we are going to use these four push buttons to represent these four buttons Okay, so that is the one of the reasons why we are restricting to four candidates if you have more push buttons maybe we can have

More number of candidates for our voting machine and the button on the middle here, this will be used as the reset button. Okay? And one of the dip switches here may be a dip switch 0. We will use it for the mode and for display we actually have an OLED display on the board but using OLED is more complicated. We will see it later. For the time being, we are going to use the LEDs for displaying the result also. So what should happen is when you cast the vote, if you successfully cast your vote, these LEDs all of them should blink for say one second to tell you that you successfully casted your vote. Now when you are checking the result, these LED will show the total number of votes

received by a candidate when you press the corresponding push button. Since we have only 8 LEDs, that means we have an additional constraint here, that is the maximum number of votes that can be received by a candidate is 255 because that's... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA‐S, ILA “SCT, SoC, Vitis‐Lite, ILA., ILA‐ SCT, IAL‐S, SoC, ILA–S, Vitis-Lite, SoC, soC, Vivada, ILA—SCT, Vivado. SoC, So this cannot be purely combinational circuit, this has to be a sequential circuit. Now we will follow hierarchical design approach for this one, that means we'll be designing parts of the voting machine separately and finally we will combine them all together

to build our final voting machine. So I'm going and starting a new Vivado project To do this, select the coordinate voting machine. You want to check this option, create some project directory. Actually, RTL project, no file, no constraint, boards, ZBoard, next, and finish. Now the first circuit I'm going to design is the circuit used for casting board. Okay, so following our previous discussion on running LED If you use a 100 megahertz clock at which our ZedBoard is running and if you check whether this button is pressed or not A single button press For one second will cast You know One mega volts. Okay, so that's not what we need So we need to specify how long a button should be pressed so that it will be accepted as a

proper vote or a proper press. So as a designer you can define it. So here I am going to define the time period as one second, that means only if you press this button for one second it will be taken as a real press. Any press less than one second will be ignored. The same way if I keep on pressing the button, the candidate should not get more and more votes actually. Okay? It doesn't matter how long I press the button. If I press it for longer than one second, it should be counted as one mode. And the longer he presses there is no effect once the vote is casted that's it.

Only once he remove his finger and press again the next vote will be taken by the machine. So that's the requirement. So I'm going to design that small circuit which is going to control this one. Okay, so I am creating a new file and let me call it button control simply. So button control logic basically has an input coming from the button and it will check how long the button is pressed. If it is pressed for more than one second, it will create a single output pulse indicating a successful board is casted. Okay? And it won't create additional pulses even if the button is kept on pressing for more than a second.

So that's the requirement. Okay, so of course it needs a clock signal to do all these things. Input clock, let's say input button, output valid vote. So from external world this is how that logic looks like. It gets an input from the button and it gives an output called ValetWort if a successful vote is casted. Let's also take a reset signal to initialize the thickness. Okay, now the logic will look similar to what we wrote last time. So of course we need a counter and the counter should count until we reach one second and 1-3 reach for one second, this signal should go high. That also exactly for one clock pulse.

So, last time we have already seen at 100 MHz if you want to measure one second. We need a 31-bit counter. So we'll say March 31 down to zero. Now one difference from the previous design is in the previous design for running LED. This was a free running counter. The counter will start from zero. It will go all the way up to, I guess it was 1 second, divided by a period of our clock which was 10 millisecond. Which will give you one followed by eight zeros. So it was like counter will always start from zero, it will go after 10 to hour of 8 then and it will reset to 0, then again go till 10 to the power of 8 so on and so forth.

So it was more like a free running counter but here the requirement is different. Okay? Here we are using the counter to check whether somebody has pressed the button for more than a second. Okay? That simply means the counter should increment only when this input is high. If this input is low, the counter should not increment and it should reset back to zero. So how does that logic look like always? Add to for search clock. Okay let's add a reset signal here if reset called is zero so initially if we press the reset button counter starts from zero.

I'll speak in end. If button is pressed, if button which is same as writing if button equal to equal to 1, if button and counter is less than 1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. OK? So I will tell you the logic why I am using this weird looking number. I am supposed to check till 10 to the power of 8, but I'm doing 10 to the order of 8 plus 1. I will explain the reason shortly. I will increment the counter. Counter is called a plus one else if not button that means as soon as you remove your finger from the button you release the button counter will be reset back to C2, this is my logic. Now why I'm adding this condition here? Now suppose if you don't add

this condition, you press the button, the counter increments and it reaches 10 to the power of 8 but if you don' t have this condition, the counter will keep on incrementing, it will reach the maximum value for 31 bit counter, it will reach and if you reach the maximum value, 22 out of 31 minus 1, then it will offer to 0 and again starts from 0. So it is possible that if you keep on pressing the counter off-force and it may create problem we may take one long button press as multiple words. That is one reason I have to add this condition here. Now why I didn't add 10 to R of 8 instead of that Y I added 10 to R8 plus 1 will be clear to you and I write my next always block.

Okay, so this is the always block which will basically create this output, valid vote whether my vote is a valid vote or not. OK, so if again reset, initially I'm setting the signal to 0, else, if counter equal to equal to So, my requirement is if I press for one second, I need a single pulse. So this signal should remain high for a single clock pulse. So that's my requirement. Now that's exactly why I put this condition here. So if I keep on pressing, my counter will reach 10 to the power of 8. On the next clock cycle, this condition will be satisfied. My valid vote will become high.

Okay? So this signal goes high and on the next clock cycles it reaches this value. And once it reaches this values what happens? This condition is no longer true. These pulse or these signals become zero. So I'll be getting exactly one pulse if I put Now, instead if I keep this condition, if I keep on pressing the counter will reach this value after that it will not increment and it will remain at this value. Ok? So because of that what happens here? My valet board will remain high as long as I remove the finger. Because the counter is stuck at this particular value so this signal remains high forever until the counter value something other than this and that will happen only when I release the button.

Okay, so that's why the reason I put this value here. Now you can use other logic also to achieve this. This is one of the possible logic. There can be other ways also to achieve exactly same effect. This is giving error here because where it is inside always block So we need to declare it as output reg. Varyed out. OK, so this part is done. Valuq vote. So this part is basically for each button. So we need this logic for each button, I press one button it will create a valid vote if I keep it pressed for more than one second.

Now let's write the logic for storing how much vote each candidate received. So that will write it as a separate module. OK, so I'm going here and adding a new file, create file. So let me call it Vort-Logar.v something like that. OK? OK. So you can see Vort-logar here. Next Vort-LOG file. And as I mentioned last time, Button Control has a triangle here and it is also in bold. That means this is the top module now in your project. If you go and synthesis Vivado, he's going to build this circuit. He's not going to build it.

So he'll simply ignore this one. Now if you want to make this as the top module, or if you want implement this circuit, you need to right click and say set a stop. Now your top module is this one. Now if you click synthesis, he's gonna build the circuit. So of course there's nothing inside the circuit now. So let's add our logic here, so here also we need input clock, we have input reset. Now what this circuit does is it simply stores the word received by a particular candidate. Ok? Now I can make four separate loggers for each candidate or I can make a single logger for all four candidates.

So to keep things simpler, let's use a single logger for logging the vote for all four candidates. I have 4 candidates, so you can either type like input candidate, 1-vote-valid candidate, 2-Watt Valet, etc. Or you can declare it as an array of size 4, both are fine. Let me write them as a separate signal. Okay so this signal is basically indicating candidate 1 received a valid vote. From where This will come from here later. We have to connect them together. Now candidate 1 vote valid, candidate 2 vote valid, candidate 3 vote valid, and candidate 4 vote valid. Okay now the logger it also gives output 7 down to 0 this output basically tells how much vote each candidate currently

to save it. Okay, so let me call it CAND1-WORT-Received, CAND2-WORT3, CAND3-WORT4. Okay by the way if you want to copy paste the same line in Vivado you can press CTRL D on your keyboard it will just replicate the current line which is a shortcut for copy paste. So this signal will say how much WORT candidate1, this is candidate2, this is 3, this is 4. Now the size I am making it 8 bit because of our restriction on Zynq on ZZ board because this information will be finally going to the LEDs so as I mentioned before one candidate can get a maximum of 255 because we have only 8LEDs, that's why I declared them 8-wide. Okay now let's try to write the logic so here logic is pretty simple so always at for such clock, pick an end, now if reset

if the system is reset the vote received by every candidate should be 0. Okay Candidate1, Candidate2, Candidate3, Candidate4 So they are all inside Always block so we need to make them regtype Now instead of doing either it's also possible to declare four counters inside the module then later connect those four counters to the output ports that's also perfectly fine in that case you will have this reg declaration part here and you have separate output and you will say candidate1 vote received equal to candidate1 vote counter or something like that.

That's also perfectly fine. Okay, else, PIKIN, sorry, PIKin, and what is the condition for incrementing candidate1 vote? If this signal is high, if candidate1 vote valid, candidate1 vote and received Zil increment by 1. So same logic for all four candidates and simply copy pasting number to change these values here this is candidate 2, candidate 2, Candidate2, Candidate3, Candidate3 Candidate3, candidate4, Candidate4, Candidate5, Candidate6, so this one is X-row we can remove it. Okay now instead of if-if, let's write else-if, else-if.

So you can see there is some kind of priority here that means if candidate1 vote valid and candidate2-vote valid comes at the same time on the same clock. The candidate1-vote will increment and candidate2-volt will not increment, and this case shouldn't be happening practically because only one of the candidates should be getting a particular vote at a particular given time so you don't have to worry about it. Only one of them will be true at a given point of time. Even if two candidates get vote at the same So there is a priority, if you press two button exactly at the same time, if you can really do it then candidate one will get the vote, candidate two won't get it because this has higher priority over this.

Because in hardware implementation this will implement a priority decoder and in priority D So, let's try to combine them. So what I'm going to do is, I'll write one more module, the top module which will basically instantiate, okay? Which will basically combine these two modules into a larger module. So I am writing a new module, this is my top module, the highest hierarchy, I'm going and to call it the routing machine,.v, even if you don't write.v, it will be automatically added. OK, so this is the topmost routing.

OK, so I know even from the picture what are the input, what are the output, I clearly know. So my inputs are input clock, input reset, input mode, input care, let's call button 1. button 2, button 3, button 4. Again you can either declare them separately or you can declare an array of four. Now output LEDs also you can either declare 8 LEDs separately or you simply declare SNA. So this is my view of my voting machine. I have clock, I have reset, I have mode, I have four buttons and I have the entity. Fine. Now let's try to combine things. So I'm taking my button control and I'm going to instantiate it inside this top module, okay? So I'm calling it button control

and I'm gonna instantiate the first button control for this button. So this is the syntax name of the module followed by instance name. So let me call button-controlled one, VC1 then the port mapping. Okay so you need to do dot followed by the actual port name we call it the actual port and within the bracket you need to say the formal port or where this port should be connected. So clock is of course this clock, so this clock is coming from the top module that clock gets connected to this clock, this reset gets connected to these reset, this button so I'm writing for the first button, so button 1 and I'm connecting here and valid vote okay So this output coming from the button control gets connected to a wire called ValetWort1.

So we have four buttons, so we need four button controls. So you can simply copy paste it four times or you can use one of these two buttons. So let's go back and see what happens. So let's see how this works. So we need 4 button controls, so you can simply copy paste it 4 times or you can use the generate statement which we discussed last semester. So this is second button control, so remember each instance should have a unique name, so if it is BC1 call this some other thing otherwise it's syntax error, clock and reset remain and same, this one is button 2, violet 4.2, this is PC3, button 3, violett4, 3, 1, 2, 3, 4, this is 4, this 4, this is 4, so same way we need to declare 4, why it's also 1, 2,3, 4, ok? Now save the file, when you

I save the file, look at the design sources here. OK, so this is your voting machine. Now you can see there is an option to expand it. If you expand it, you will see there are four button controls instantiated under the voting machine. This is again one good feature of Vipin Kizheppatt. Vivado, Vivado, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, XSCT. Vivado, Vitis, Zynx, XS That means that signal is not declared, so where it worked for instead of that I wrote here where it worked 41. So make it work for, that means the blue color goes in again, Vivado, it analyzes your code statically.

That means when you're entering the code at the same time he's analyzing your code. That's why he's able to tell you syntax error and warnings at that time itself. Now, what logger? Let me bring the what logger here and try to instantiate it. Okay so what logger would you name let me call the instant name as VL, clock reset candidate one valid, candidate two valid, candidate three valid. So clock you can connect to the same clock source, reset the same reset. Now candidate one 1W Valet is coming from button control 1, Valet 1, I'm going to take this wire and I'm going to put it here.

Ok so if I press button 1 for one second, this signal will go high for one clock that is basically coming to this signal and inside the logger if this signal is high candidate 1-Watt increments by one. Okay, that's why the signal should be high exactly for one clock pulse. If it remains high for two clock pulse for one button press you will get two volts to that candidate which shouldn't happen. So, valid vote one, valid vote two, three and four. Now this part is also done so how much watt each candidate received is coming here. Now this information should be finally going to the LED. Now when it will go to the LED, that depends upon the mode. Only when the mode is in result mode, this

result should go to the led. If it is in the voting mode, it shouldn't go to the LED, okay. Instead if I press the button sufficiently long all the LEDs should go for one second so that begs for next part of our circuit we'll have to design it you can write the code either directly inside this or you can write it separately so I will prefer again to write it as a separate module now let me Go ahead and save my file, and when I save the file you can immediately see what logger came under voting machine. So again you can see the hierarchy here but remember the triangle is still here that means if you are synthesizing your design it is going to synthesize the vote logger not the voting machine so we'll go ahead and right click and say this is my top. This is my top Now let me add a new file, add a create a new design So let me call it as mode control Ok, this is the module which is going to control the mode And this is the guy who is actually going to control my LEDs Ok so lets try to design that mode control, so mode control it will also have a input SoC, input, reset. Now input mode of course and he is the one who is going to control the LEDs as I mentioned so that's what my plan. So when he has to control the LED he need to check what is the mode and based on what is the more he has to decide whether the candidate, WART should go as the output or whether he has to simply make the LEDs high for one

clock pulse, one second actually if a successful WART is faster. So to do that he need to know WART Caster, let me call it valid WART Caste, so I'm going to say this signal will go high If one of the candidates gets a valid vote, either candidate 1, 2 or 3, 3 or 4. If one of them gets a valid word this signal is going to high that is my assumption. If that happens he should make the LEDs high for one clock. Now other inputs are used for sending the vote received by each candidate if it is in the count mode or a cell mode.

Okay, candidate 1-votes-vote, candidate 2-votes, candidate 3-votes and candidate 4-votes. So let's try to define, so let me say and of course his outputs are the LEDs, so output that we again call 7.0 LEDs, let me say always at such clock, again end, if reset LEDs, at The beginning of whenever I press reset button all LEDs become 0. So it is inside always block, so of course there should be much type. Else let's say begin end. Let's say if equal to equal to 0. So, Mod 0 is my voting mode. Mod 1 is my result mode. That's how I'm going to define it.

Mod 0 is voting and the slide switch is off. We are in voting mode and the slide switch is on. We are at the result mode. Okay so else. So, voting mode my requirement LEDs, if the signal become high, LEDs should stay high for one second. OK? That logic is very similar to what we wrote before. So I can say if vote equal to equal to 0 and if valid vote is casted. OK? What should I do? I need to make this LEDs, there are 8 of them. So you can either write 8 tick hexadecimal FF or 8 tick binary or once or simply 255 all of them will work. Now if I simply write this much the problem is as soon as a vote is casted LEDs become high and they remain high so I need to put one more condition, how long they should remain high? So they should remain

high for 1 second. So that means I need a counter again for counting 1 second So we know we need 31-bit counter, always set OSH clock, VIN and IF reset, counter 0. Now when this counter should start counting? This counter should start So this is the value of what we are counting when a valid vote is custom. It should count till one second then... It should stop. That is my requirement. Okay? So else if, so again you can use Vapar logic you want. So I'm using one of the logic. If this signal is high, I will say counter is counter plus one.

If this signal become high and my assumption is that signal will remain high only for one clock cycle. So initially counter was 0, when I press the reset. When I casted a vote, counter became 1. Now once it becomes 1, K, else if counter not equal to 0, and counter is less than 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. and second counter plus one else counter. This means, okay weird logic so this is what I'm going to do. Whenever Vset is pressed, counter starts from, okay? If a valid work is casted, counter becomes one. Why? Because my assumption is this signal will remain high only for one clock cycle.

Okay, if it is high for one clock cycles, counter was zero because of reset and this signal will make it to increment by 1 and it will become 1. And on the next clock cycle, reset is not there so this is false, this signal is not there because it's period is only one cycle, so this doesn't happen and we come to this case and here counter is not equal to zero because this condition made it 1 and the counter is less than this big value. Because of that the counter will start incrementing and the counter keep on incrementing until it reaches this value So that will create a 1 second delay and on the next clock this is false This is false, this is false because counter has reached this value when you come here and counter goes back to fit.

That's the logic I'm going to use If a value what is casted counter becomes 1 if counter is not 0 increment it till 100 Once counter becomes So look at the code, I thought about it how this logic may work and try to do it. So here I'm going to write it like that if mode is 0 and value toward caster now I can remove that condition now because this signal is already taken care by the counter logic here So this is actually not needed. I can simply write if mode is 0 and if counter is greater than 0, because the counter should be started and okay I guess greater than 0 is enough. Yeah, it was greater than zero condition will happen when valid word cost comes and the counter will

LIT will remain greater than 0 until it reaches this value then it goes back to 0 so this much is enough if mode is 0 and counter greater than 0 LIT remains high as LIT goes back to zero okay that's good Okay, so if I simply write it that means any condition other than that. That means even mod equal to equal to 1 also this should be the case. So let me slightly modify it. Mod equal to 0, count again here. L-SIF mod equal to 0 and counter equal to 0. That is the implicit meaning here. L-Litis becomes 0. Because we have another case here, L-SIF board equal to equal to 1, which is our result board.

Now I am in result board. In result board what should happen? In result board I need to check which button is pressed here and I should display the corresponding SoC, I need to know which button is pressed. So I also need to get those inputs. So I need to also know candidate 1 button press, candidate 2 button press, candidate 3 button press, candidate 4 button press, then only I can do it. If candidate 1 button pressed, candidate1buttonpress, LEDs should have candidate1vort, or we can replicate the same logic. OK, else if candidate2buttonpress, LED is candidate2vort, else if candidate3 button press, candidate3 what?

Hence if candidate4 button press, candidate4 what? If you wish you can add an else case and say all LEDs are 0. None of the buttons are pressed but it's very not required. This is enough. Ok so if reset comes LEDs are 0 If you are in mode 0, which is voting mode, and if my counter is not 0, if it is greater than 0 I will make the LEDs to glow. And when the counter all flows to 0, I return the LEDs off. That's the logic here. If you are at the present point, I will check which button is pressed and based on which button is pressed, I will pass the corresponding votes to the Now remember we looked at the rule, you can use a variable on the left hand side of an always

block inside a single always block. That's why you cannot separate this part and this part into two always blocks in that case you will have this LED signal on the left-hand side of the assignment operator inside two always blocks which is illegal for synthesizable So you should write all the LEDs inside the single-order block. Okay, so it looks fine at this point of time and now let me take this logic and put it here, my mode control, okay? So the clock signal is again the same clock, reset is again same reset. This mode is coming from here.

There it was casted, we will generate it at this point, give it empty, candidate 1 watt, OK which is same as this sequence coming from Wortlogger. So let me take it from here and put it in the bracket here, and put it here. And declare it. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA. candidate3 vote here, candidate4 vote here, now candidate1 whether a valid button press is done that logic we already have from our button press logic so this valid vote 1 is basically saying the button is pressed for more than one second okay so we can use the same signal Not only in the logger, in this mode control also.

Because that signal is going to become high for one clock pulse if this corresponding button is pressed for 1 second or more than 1 second. So same logic will work. VARITV1, VARITv2, VARITEV3, VARATEV4 and these are the LEDs Now these LEDs should be connected to the top LED. Now don't declare them regtype, okay? So any signal connected to the output of an instantiated module shouldn't be regtype, it should be wire type, that's the rule. So this should be wiretype, that means you don't write anything here or you can explicitly write Y for the same.

So don't write, write there. So this LED gets connected here. Now the only thing that is missing here is valid word casted. My assumption was this signal will become high if either candidate 1, 2, 3 or 4 receives a valid word. That is my requirement. If any of them receives a valid So this signal indicates candidate 1 received a valid vote. This one candidate 2 received a valid for. So basically you do an OR operation on these four signals. That means if any of them become high, this signal becomes high. Now that you can do separately here.

So let's say the first one is the second one is the third one. This signal become high. Now that you can do separately here and assign that to a wire or you can directly do the OR operation in the bracket itself so let me do it separately here wire VIR, let me call the VIR any valid word, something like that and I can say assign any valid word is valid word 1 or valid word 2 or valid word 3 or valid word 4. That means if any of them gets a valid word, the signal will go high. And that will start the counter and set the logic which will make the LEDs to stay high for one clock circuit.

Now there are no syntax error at this point of time. Again I am not going to simulate my circuit. One reason is there are a lot of things here which works at one second. Now if you want to simulate a 1 second clock video of 1 clock time of 1 second using a simulator, it will take several minutes or maybe 30 minutes of simulation time. So I don't want to waste my time. I hope all my logic is right. If not we'll run it on the board and try to debug at that point of time. So I'm directly going and running synthesis, assuming everything that I have done is correct.

Look here my synthesis is completed, now as usual we will go ahead and do the pin assignment. So let's assign the LEDs first. So they are P22, P21, P22, 21, P22W22, 19. Here I have my buttons. So I'm assigning the top button for candidate 1, which is T18. Right one is candidate 2, I'm calling R18. Bottom one for candidate 3, R16. Left one for candidate 4 and 15. T18, R18, R16 and N15. Okay clock signal, network number it is Y9 on this board if you don't remember check the datasheet mode I am going to use the first light switch which is F22 and reset I'm going to use center push button which is P16 okay also Remember to change the IUS standard, we use all of them LVC-MOS18

So even if it is given as default you should manually change them to LVC-Mos18 otherwise during bit.gen you'll get an error. Okay so constraint file, working machine.xtc Finally saved, we'll also give the clock constraint, so Edit timing constraint, Add clock, clock name is clock, source is also clock, and ok, check back the constraint, save everything, ok, string, it seems like everything is updated. I'll go ahead and generate the bitstream. Synthesis is out of date, force update and generate bitstream. So when I tried to run the design on the board first time it was running only partially so I recheck my code and there was some silly mistake okay so let's correct them. So first one was we created this

signal which will become high if I press any of the buttons for more than one second. So we created this signal but I forgot to connect it, so that signal any valid vote should be actually connected to valid vote trusted to this one, that was one mistake that I did. Second one again was a copy paste issue For example, here on button control 3 I connected button 4 instead of button 3. So when I press button 3 nothing was happening so that was another issue so we need to correct that and the final one was in WART logo here. I was not considering the mode option so it was written If candidate 1 vote valid, candidate 1 vote received increment by 1.

Now here the problem is if I am in counting mode, I need to press the same SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA-SP8 PCB, ILA. Add that port and connect this. That's it, once this much is done, pretty much the design is running. So let's see it, I am programming the port now. Now the board is programmed, you can see the blue LED here. So first of all I am resetting the board by pressing the reset button here, OK, and I'm configuring my board in voting mode first. So we have the slide switches this one was used as the mode button, mode switch so I am putting it in position 0 of position down position which is 0 ok now we are in voting SoC, Vitis, Vitis-Gluo, Vitis2-Lite, ILA, ILA-Glu

Candidate 2, 1, 3, this is candidate 3, 1, 2, candidate 4, 1. Okay? So let's assume voting is over. You need to check the result. So I'm changing mode to 1 which is for checking the result. Pressing the same button once more and you can say it's displaying four, candidate one. Okay, candidate two, three, candidate three, two and finally candidate one. In this case even if you remove your finger the LED remain on because in our program we didn't add the code for making the LED zero If none of the buttons are pressed, so if you add that option, you will see how many words one particular guy got only when you keep pressing the button once you remove it, then it will turn off. So

that option you can add easily. Okay! So that's it I hope you understood the code and you will try it yourself and you'll get back to me if you have any thoughts thank you
