Hello, in our next tutorial we are trying to interface the OLED display. This organic LED display with the ZYNCPL part. So in the previous example we have been using the LEDs as our output interface. LEDs, they of course have their limitations. We are restricted by 8 LEDs. We cannot show any alpha numeric. We can show only numbers from 0 to 255 in binary format. So if we have OLED display, we are in a much better position. You can display all alpha numeric and you can even have running displays so it is not restricted OLET display, you can have a running display and you can display any amount of information that you would like.

But interfacing OLED is not very straightforward as connecting with LEDs. There are lot of concepts involved there and involves pretty much of coding so we will be doing it part by part. OK, so the details about OLED. You will have to read the data sheet a little bit and I will also try to explain in the next video. So today's video I'll be doing only a part of the entire coding. Okay, so if you go to the ZedBoard data sheet and if you search for OLED, this is the only information available to you. So the board comes with OLED display, this is a 128 by 32 pixel display. So basically there are 128 pixels this way and 32 pixels this way that is the size of this display it is monochrome that means

displays will be only in black and white pure black and white okay so if pixel value is high means it will be white if the pixel value is 0, means that will be black. And they are also providing the pin connection information. So these are the pins coming from the display which are already connected with the chip the same way LEDs are connected but this is not one or two wires, there are many of them. And you will see for some pins, The ZYNC pin, the corresponding pin on FPGA is not given. So NC stands for not connected.

That means this pin from OLED is not connected to ZYNC. Instead it is directly handled on the PCB. For example, this is the VCC. It is not connected to FPGA but it is directly connected to the VCC power supply on the PCB. So there is no control for FPGA as far as this VCC is concerned. But for VDD you can have control from FPGA, so how to use this VLC later? Today the only thing I am focusing is this part. So how Zynq will communicate with OLED? Okay, so you have to display characters, you have to display number, maybe you have to display pictures.

How this information is communicated between the Zinc chip, and OLED. It happens through this interface. Now these are two wires actually coming from Zinc to OLED and from the naming it appears like this follows I2C standard. So please refer to your lecture slides to know more about I2C Inter-Integrated Circuit Communication protocol, which uses serial clock and serial data only two wire communication. But the one actually used between Zynq and OLED is not I2C instead it is a SPI protocol, serial peripheral interface.

Again you should refer your lecture slides to know more about SPI. The only thing i would like The next thing I like to add is usually SPI is also called a 4-wire communication protocol, because there are 4 wires. 1 wire for clock, 1 wire for data from master to slave which is called MOSI, Master Out Slave In, One wire from slave to master, which is called master in slave out and one wire called slave select, which is basically used for selecting a particular slave. Now here you can see only three wires so this is the clock signal, this SD IN is same as MOSI and this is the wire through which FPGA will be setting that.

SoC, Vivado, Zynq, ZSCT, ZSct, ZS SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, ZS Z-Board, ZSCT, ZSct, ZS Now, further details are available in this data sheet. So you should go and search this number, which is the part number for the OLED, and download two more data sheets from the website. So you'll get this data sheet from the website, which has more information about what each pin means. So these pins are exactly same as this, VDD, VSS, VCC etc. It's same. So it's Same as this, so more information are given there. Now what we are interested from this data sheet is the timing diagram for SPI communication and writing the values also. So if you come to this page okay so this page is basically describing what is the clock frequency typical clock

frequency for SPI communication supported by this OLED. Okay? And the value is supported, the minimum clock period is 100 nanoseconds. That means the maximum clock frequency at which SPI communication can happen is 10 megahertz. Now remember the clock coming to Zynq from the crystal is 100 megahertz so you cannot Or directly use that clock as an SPI clock because the maximum frequency supported by OLED for SPI communication is only 10 MHz. In addition to that, you can also see the setup time, hold time requirement for every signal between ZYNC and OLED. And we should respect all this timing parameters otherwise things won't be working properly. Okay so keep this in mind, and ProxCycle 100 nanosecond minimum.

Now this is the timing diagram for SPI, how data should be sent over a SPI protocol. Now remember, if SPI is a serial protocol that means you are sending one bit at a time even if you have thousands of bytes of data, you can send only one bit at a time. And this is the Timing diagram for that so you can see CS chip select should be low. while communication happens. But as far as ZedBoard is concerned, chip select is permanently low so you don't have to worry about it. It's always low and this is the clock signal and this is the order in which data should be sent. So you can see it is D7 first followed by D6, D5 etc that means when you are sending one byte So, you can see this is the falling edge of the series clock.

And what should happen? The master is the last bit. And the second bit should be the last bit, okay? That's the order you should follow. Now, you should also notice the clock edges where the data is being sent. The master should place the data on the falling edge so that the slave can read the data on the rising edge. So as far as we are concerned, Zynq is the master and OLED is the slave. So Zynq should place the date on the falling edges and OLED will read the data on the rising edge And if you follow this timing sequence, the setup time, hold time requirement are automatically satisfied So this is the rising edge, so this is the setup time available which is half clock cycle and

There is no communication, even if there is a clock and there is something on the data that won't be transmitted. But on our board, CS is permanently low. That means you cannot have a continuously running clock. The clock should be present only during communication. During other time, the clock should remain high. Okay? The clock should remain higher. Otherwise, if the clock is freely running, the OLED will be continuously reading from the data line and we don't know what data is going, that will affect the operation.

So this is what we are going to do whenever we need data communication, we will have clock and whenever we don't want to communicate, we won't have a clock instead we'll have a high signal on the clock pin. Fine so today we are going We are going to design only this SPI part and the remainder circuit we will design after testing our SPI. So basically today we are going to design an SPI controller so starting it as a separate project and once we design this SPI controller we will integrated with the remainder of the circuit which we will build and finally we'll have the complete OLED controller. Let's try to write the input-output interface for the SPA controller, so remember this

SPA controller will be implemented in the ZYNC chip and it will be connected to the pin of ZYNC which will be later connected to the OLED. So as far as the controller is sub-core concerned We of course have a clock, now this is onboard ZYNC clock, remember this is coming at 100MHz At that frequency you cannot change. Now we have a reset signal, as usual Now suppose how the SVA controller is going to work so what the SVA SPA controller is supposed to do is this SPA controller, this circuit will be getting one byte of data from some other part of the circuit.

Maybe later from the processor he will get one byte of Data and he has to transmit this one byte of data or the SPI interface serial okay so he's getting one byte DATA, which is 8 bits and he has to transmit it CTL. So this is more like a parallel in serial out controller. He's getting data in parallel so I'm calling it DATA in. He's He is getting 8 bit of data and he has to send 1 bit at a time over SBA. So, now we need a few more additional signals. So as I said before, the data to be sent over SVA will be provided by some other circuit.

Now how that circuit will tell my SVA controller that a new data has to be sent? So again remember these are physical wires so this is some wire coming from some part of the circuit so those wire will always have some value. Now how the circuit which wants to send data will tell the SVA controller that a new data is available for sending. So we need one additional signal for that indication, so I am calling it input load data something like that. So signal indicates new data for transmission. So this is load data or you can say this is like a data valid signal. This signal is basically telling there's a new data for transmitting. Now same way your SPA controller should tell

the other circuit that he has finished sending the data so that he can give the next data, okay? So this is more like a handshaking between two circuits. So that circuit is telling you New data is available, send it. Once you finish sending, you should tell him, okay I have done finishing it, give me new data. If that kind of handshaking is not available, the other circuit he doesn't know whether you finished data sending and maybe he will give you a new data before the previous one was completely sent out which will create issues.

OK, so you need handshaking and don't send or something. So signal indicates data has been sent over SPI interface. Later we will connect these signals with other part of the circuit. Or maybe later we'll connect this signal to the processor itself inside Zynq so that the processor can directly So basically these are the interfaces. Now first thing that I'm going to do is to generate, try to generate this SPA clock. Now remember this is 100 megahertz and this is maximum 10 megahertz max. So we will try to run the clock at 10 megaherz.

So that we get the best performance. Now let's see how it works. So now we have a very simple interface called the SPA clock, which is a very simple one. So basically I will use a counter and the counter will be running using this clock signal. And when the counter value reaches 4, I will toggle this signal. Okay? So counter from 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 which will consume 5 clock cycles from here. I will toggle the signal, that means if it is 1, I make it 0 and again I count from 0, 1, 2, 3, 4. I will again toggle it so if it were 0, it would become 1.

So that will create some kind of square wave whose frequency is one by tenth of this one. Now that counter has to count till four. So it has to be pre-bit, simply call it counter, maybe initialize it to 0 here itself. Now this is what I'm going to do always at per such clock, if counter is not equal to 4, counter plus 1, if it is not 4 I will increment it, if it becomes 4 I will make it same. Now in another Always Block, what I will do is if counter equal to equal to 4, I'll do SPI clock is lot of SPI clock. So this is basically the toggle of SPI.

Now this is inside Always Block so it should be declared as register etcetera. Oh sorry, I put here at SPI data, I'll put SPI. OK, so it will be clearer when we do simulation. Now one issue that you'll face during simulation is I don't give any initial value to SPA core. So as far as simulator is concerned, when you start simulation this value is unknown. So it will be X and if you take a negation of X it remains X unknown. So we have to give an initial value. You can either assign it and you can write an initial block or you can add the reset signal here and initialize this to 0 or 1.

So I am going to use an initial block, initial, and I will say SPI clock is 0 initially. Now on real hardware even if you don't have this it will work because this signal will So this is the external card which is running at nanosecond. You are not using reset anywhere here, so it doesn't matter. Assign any value to reach. So let's go ahead and check that. So let's see what we have done. So let's check the signal. So let's do this. So let's say that we have a signal. So let's take a look at the signal. So let's look at the and we will be able to find any value to reset. What we are interested is this clock. Okay, so let's run.

And here you can see, let me put the counter also, you understand. Okay, so look here, the counter value is 0 then the counter goes to 1 2 3 4 and back to 0. OK? Now this signal was 1 here and we wrote if counter equal to equal to 4 toggle that. So make sure you remember where the signal is becoming 4, so although you can see 4 here This is happening after the clock edge. OK, so counter will be seen as 4 by this or this clock or by this if condition which is basically a competitor inside your circuit only on this clock.

So as far as this clock is at GIS concerned, the counter value is still 3, the counter values for only here. That's why we compared with 4 instead of 5. OK, so only if I write like this, I have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 clock periods here and 5 clock periods here. So total one clock cycle here is same as 10 clock cycles here that means this is 1 by 10 so if it is 100 MHz, this will be 10 MHz you can measure that also we have our marker here You can place it at the beginning of this edge. You can right click here and choose markers at marker, you will have one more marker that marker you can move to the So, so the first marker is 1st marker and 2nd marker.

So he's showing like minus 100 nanoseconds, 45 minus 145 nanosecond. So the period is 100 nanosec, which is the requirement from the data sheet. Okay? Clock should be 100 nanosecon. So that part is done. You can close the simulation from here. Now later we'll have to slightly modify it because as I mentioned before, if you use this code directly your SPA clock is a continuously running clock. It never stops and the CA signal is always low. That means there will be always data going from Zinc to OLED and we don't know where data is going.

So we need to enable this clock only when communication happens. Other time, this clock should remain 1. Okay? So we'll have to modify it later accordingly. So most probably this initial conditional side will change to 1. Okay let's see. Now, we will write the communication part. So basically this is a requirement so I'll have this data coming from somewhere and I need to send it one bit at a time starting from MSB. Now, to do this you will need a state machine, okay? Because this cannot be represented as a single condition.

What I should do on this clock will depend upon what I was doing before. So initially I will have to take the data. Then I have to send one bit at a time, then I have to check whether I send all the data, then I have done sending. So there are multiple states so you will have to write it as a state machine and that is a standard way of writing state machine in midlock so we'll exactly follow it. So, OK. Now we are always writing post-age clock but this time I will go ahead and change it to neck edge clock because as we discussed before from the timing diagram the data should be sent during negative edge of the clock so that OLED can read it on the post-age of OK, so that's why I'm writing NACKET. Next, data transmission is happening using

SPA clock not using the 100 megahertz clock. So this clock I will change to SPA clock. We can end. So you should always have a recent condition for state machine because You need to initialize the state and all. So I'll say initially I am in idle state, we will declare all these things later once we finish state machine. So initially I'm in idle state or whenever reset comes I will go back to idle state. Okay now suppose we are in idle state so this is standard VIF right in state machine and you have to follow this style. So this is the name of the state and here you will write what would happen if you are in that particular state.

So assume you're in idle state, and your state machine will remain in idle state as long as you don't have any data descent. Now when you have a data descent which is indicated by this signal, load data, okay? So if load data, okay, what should happen? If there is load data, that means you have some valid data here. So what we'll do is I will take this input data and store it in a register. Let me call it a cache-shift-register. It will be clear to you why it is called a shift register. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, XS SoC, Vitis-Lite, XSect, ZynQ, XS SoC, Shift-Wedge, so I'm going to send its seventh bit, MS bit as the output which is SP data.

So again we are going to use it inside Always-Pump, declared it as Wedge time. So shift-wedge 7 SP data, I place the first data here then I will shift-register, shift-my-shift-register and then I will write the next negative edge, the 6th bit here will become the 7th bit. So I will write as 6 down to 0 and 1 to be 0 here. That means the 6th is comes as 7th, 5th bit as 6th, 0th bit as 1st, so on and so forth I'm saying my rightmost bit becomes zero. Now remember everything you write inside one state happens on the same clock edge, okay? So on this negative clock edge, the seventh bit get transmitted to SBI data which is a ridge essentially this is a flip-flop so the seventh bit goes

as the output of flip-flop, then the entire shift register left shift by one position so that the 6 bit comes at 7 bit and when I transmit data on the next clock edge this 6 will be going here effectively. Now how long you will remain in this state? You will remain in the state as long as you send all 8 bits of data. So there should be some way of checking whether I finish sending all 8 bits. Now to do that we need again a counter, so maybe we need to count till 8 or 7, let's see. So I'm making a 3-bit counter, so it should also be initialized, I am initializing it Reset, I'm also initializing it inside, I'll list it. So before coming to send state, I'm resetting this guy to 0. Here what I am doing is if data count not equal to 7, that's the maximum value is 3-bit counter. If it is not 7, I will increment it. That means when it becomes 7, that means I have sent 7 data or 8 data. I will go to the next stage. That means I have finished sending data. It will be clearer when we do simulation, I'll show you. So I'm changing the state to something called maybe a time state. So here I am in done state, pick in end and in done state I will make this signal high, so let's declare that as a register type to indicate that I have finished data sending. So this should be also initialized when you press reset.

Now this information will be seen by the circuit who actually wants to send data, okay? and when he sees that I have a So, we have seen this signal. We define it in this way. Whoever wants to send data, he will make this signal high to indicate he want to send data and he will keep the signal high until he sees the done signal. As he sees, the turn signal is high. He will make this signal low to indicate like he has seen the turn signal. So what I'll do is I'll wait in this state until the load signal becomes zero.

Once I see load signal is 0, I will make the done signal loop because this signal loop indicates that the guy who wants to transmit here already. So this signal is high so I'll make it 0 and I will change my state to idle. That's all your statement. So you are in idle state, you're waiting for the signal to come. If the signal comes, you latches the data. You go to the next step. You also initialize the data counter. In this state, you are shifting the 7th bit or you're connecting the 7th to the SPA data. You are shifting the register left by 1 bit and if counter is not 7, you are incrementing it by 1 until it becomes 7.

Now, once you have sent all data, you are coming to the done state. You make the signal high to indicate that you have finished sending data. Wait until whoever wants to send data to deassert this signal, no data. Once you see this signal is low, you deassert the done signal and go back to idle state. Now, you have to declare all these things. That's why we have a error here. So, state, we have 1-2-3 state. So, state is a rudge. You have 0-1-2 so you need 2 bit state. Now all the state variables should be declared as local params. Local params, idle equal to TCT0, so wherever there is local idle will be replaced by constant 0 and we have sent TCT1, sent will be replaced

by 1 and then done basically TCT2. Okay so local param is a way of declaring constants in Vilog. Okay, one missed case, we didn't write case statement, I cased it. So that should be there and here we need end-case expression. Better to keep in the notation, understand? So that completes the step method. Let's simulate and see how much it is working. So simulation, behavioral simulation, reset 1, initially data in Kipet 0 and load data Kipet So, first I am trying to send A5 which is 1010101. So, data I give. Let me make the node data signal high so this is the protocol.

So practically this will be given by some other circuit which we will build later. OK, so you can see F I came that got latched here on this negative edge, negative edge of this clock. So remember state machine is running on this clock. Let's see what happens. 1000 Niles here and run. So you can see the SBA data how it is going. So on negative edge it State placed, okay? And this will be seen by all at on the search. So this is 10101, okay? This is exactly what we wanted to send and once it is sent you can see the done signal became high and your state is stuck at 2 which is basically done state and you'll be stuck at DoneState until this load data signal becomes slow. So load data, let me make it zero and

out of the state you will come back to zero which is idle state. Okay? So everything looks fine except as I mentioned before the SPA clock. See the SPAclock is continuously running So the OLED is continuously reading from SPA data. So after this point, you are not sending valid data, but still he'll be seeing a data called 1 on SPA data pin that we have to avoid. So basically your external SPA clock should be running starting from here all the way to one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. OK, it should run only till here. On this edge onwards, it should be flat, it should remain high.

Same way before this edge, it should remains flat. So that's what we need to do. OK, so how can we do it? So that's where you can use the concept of gate clock. OK, this is a speed clock, you don't want it to continuously run, We want to run it only when data transmission happens. Now if you directly control this SPI clock, You will run into another problem because your state machine is running using the same clock. Okay so if I say when the system begins there's no SPI clock that basically means Your state machine won't run. Okay? So what you need to do is You need a 10 MHz clock internally generated and your state machine should run using that clock.

Then, that clock should be gated controlled and given to the SVA clock. So this clock that I am generating here, I'm going to rename it. I'm just calling it clock 100 to indicate or clock 10 maybe to indicate 10 megahertz clock and I'm changing all these things All of them we can clock 10, so I need to declare it. So, if the SPI clock ‐‐ I write like this. So, if SPI clock equal to clock 10 with some control signal. So, if that control signal is there, SPI clock will be clock 10. If that control signal is not there, SPI clocks should be high. It should be constant high.

So, again you can do it in a different way. Effectively, this is a multiplexer. So I can write like, if clock enable equal to equal to 1, this one, if there is no clock enable, SPA clock remains 1. Now I am using it with assign statement so we need to remove it. Now from where we will get this clock enable? That also we need to generate from the state machine. So initially when the system starts, when there is reset, we'll say clock enable 0, there is no clock enable. When you are in idle state then also there is no clock enable. Clock enable will be made high when you start data transmission so here I will make clock enable equal to 1 okay and once you have done with data

transmission I'll make clock enable 0. So clock enable is high only during this Let's come back and look at the wave diagram. If you haven't closed the simulation tab, instead of again running simulation from here, you can just click on this button, relaunch, that means he will recompil your code and simulation will start again. Okay but that new signal is not automatically added to the wave window so we need to add it from here. So now I have clock enable So let's restart and clock, clock 0110 reset constant one, data in constant zero, no data Constant 0. Now let's run for say 100 nanoseconds, okay so we have applied reset signal, SPI data also we should ideally initialize it, so let me do it here, SPI Data, let me make it be 0,

1TIC-P1, doesn't matter actually. Okay now let me remove the reset, force constant, 0 again 100. Now I remove the reset. Now let me load some data okay force constant we'll use the same as before A5 and load data signal one and let's run it let's see what happens. Now notice that So that SPA clock is flat now because your CE is 0 now. Let's see, okay now look at this point CE became 1 because your state has changed to 0 to 1. Okay? That's when CE became 1 and let's see what data is going on. So here it is 1, so 1 0 1, 1 0 1 0, 0 1 0 1. That's it after that the clock becomes flat again.

So the only information seen by OLED is this much because that's the only time where clock is available All other time clock is constant high. So time signal goes high, now if you make load data force constant zero, time signal goes low. Now if you want to send another data say F0 Vipin Kizheppatt, Zynq, ZSCT, I have the SPA controller and whether it is really working or not, you cannot see it directly on the board because you cannot connect these output signals to LEDs because they are running so fast your 10 MHz is too fast for you to visually see whether it is working or not So at this point of time, I'm just verifying through simulation I am satisfied okay it is working through simulation

And actually there is a way to test it on hardware, the SPI controller alone or any subunit of your hardware. That technique we will discuss in the next video.
