Welcome back. In the last video, we have completed the design of the SPI controller. We already simulated it and made sure it is working fine in simulation. Now as I mentioned before, it is really difficult to test it directly on the board because your SPI controller that is also running at 100 MHz. So if you want to see the signals, output signals, it is Now this application is not only for seeing the output signal, you can see any internal signal in your design during runtime and this is very useful in debugging. We spend a lot of time in simulation to find out all the bugs and correct them but still there could be some corner cases which do not come up in simulation and while you are testing the

So there we have the idea of scan chain insertion, I guess you remember, where we put an additional circuit within the chip and connect some key flip-flops to this chain. So here also the concept is similar but here the advantage is this scan chain insertion, again most of it is automated you can decide which signal should be added to this chain in Vivado and Vivado will be synthesizing that scan chain for you so he will synthesize all the circuit for you. So if you are using a single signal, you can see that there is a signal that is ScanShane for you. So he will synthesize all the circuits for you and during runtime you can specify special triggering condition under which he should be checking these outputs

and those output you can see in real time on your screen. So this data transmission, so at runtime he'll be capturing the data from this flip-flop that information is also sent through the same So this is a very powerful feature. So let's see how to do this. Okay, so in order to do this, the first step is you complete your design, preferably you simulate it. After that, you should synthesize your design. So I have already synthesized it to save some time. After synthesis, you should come to the same level of the design.

So if you want to do something like this, you can do something like that. After synthesis, you should come under this option, Setup Debug. OK? So come to Setup Debug and a wizard will come up using which you can be able to choose which signals you want to see in real time. For example, I am interested in all SPI output signals. So you should add these signals to this window. So to do that, you click on Find, that's to add. And here you can search for the particular net. You would prefer to see it. Now remember, this step is happening after synthetic data.

So let me show you how to do that. So if I go back to the slide, and I'm going to show you Now, remember this step is happening after synthesis. So basically Vivado is going to search for these net names in the netlist, not from your actual VIDLOG code. So you will find like the name that you have given in your code may not be matching with the name that you are going to see here because the name here they are the names in the source code and After synthesis or during synthesis the tool is free to rename the nets, is free to remove nets Nuts due to optimization or he is even free to add new Nuts like register duplication and all.

When that happens, he may be adding extra flip-flops and wires. So you may not find the names are exactly matching but you can change them. SoC, soC, so But these two signals are exactly same as these things, only difference is it is going through a buffer and buffer It does nothing to the logic value. So it's perfectly fine to View these signals instead of these two things so you should add them Okay, SPI data underscore O buff and SPI clock underscore O buff, okay, so I'm interested in these two Then maybe I'm also interested to see this control signal load data and send done.

So remember these two control signals, load data basically says like I want to send a new data through SPI to the SPI controller, done send is basically the controller is telling me that he has finished sending it so let's add them also DATA star, OK, so you can see like it's slow data underscore I buff these are the wires coming from the input buffer so if I go back and if I click it's the output of this buffer input buffer now here you can see it is showing something called undefined in red color so one important thing to remember is every So the signal that you want to debug should be associated with a clock signal.

So here you can see like he automatically saying these two signals, their values are changing in synchronous with this clock and remember this clock that is there in your design input clock and this is the internal signal input clock goes through an input buffer then it So this is same as the input clock in your design, this one. So he automatically found out these two signals are changing based on this clock. But he doesn't know what is a clock signal associated with this one, load data. Since that is an external signal, as far as the tool is concerned, this is an asynchronous signal. So he doesn't know based on which clock the signal is changing, that's why it is showing undefined. Now the rule is every signal should be associated with a

clock domain then only the debug circuit or your scan chain kind of thing he can capture the data and send it to you okay so he is going to capture the data using So you need to tell using which clock signal he should capture this signal. Okay, so you double click here on the clock domain. I think you need to click here, warning form. OK, to show only nets do not have clock domain and you can choose this one. So you have to tell which is the clock to wait. Okay, I think this one, you can directly click here and choose the clock coming there also.

I guess we have almost done so we have SPA clock, SPA data, load data, done signal and buffer. Now the remaining one is reset. Okay, I'm not very interested in that signal. Load data, done. Yeah, let's say. Now one important thing to remember, never try to capture your input clock, okay? Because the tool is going to use this clock to capture a particular signal. Now if you say you want to see this clock itself, that will be really problematic for example. Okay, clock underscore 10, you remember that's an internal clock but this is your input clock.

Now this is a serious issue. You want to see this clock, which is a clock and you cannot capture that clock using the same clock. So never try to capture a sampling clock. OK, so don't get confused here you are capturing SPA clock which is not the sampling clock. This is not the clock used for sampling the signal. The signal used for sampling other signal is your input clock. So it's perfectly fine to capture SPA clock using this particular clock but don't try to capture this clock using SPA. Now that's it. You can say next and in this window what you are going to do is you are specifying how many samples should be collected before sending that information to your computer.

So if you say 1024, he's going to capture each of these signal on 1024 clocks after that he will send that to you. Now you can increase the size okay. Now one important thing to remember is the circuit which is going to capture this information and which will be sent to you, okay. That circuit Xilinx they call it ILA which stands for Integrated Logic Analysis. From now onwards I'll be just mentioning ILA or ILA so remember that is the circuit which can capture the internal circuits in real time. Now this is not a fixed circuit, okay? This circuit is automatically inserted by Vivado into U-N-Atlist.

So he will create a new circuit and he will integrate that circuit with the circuit that you have already built And he will connect your signals with this ILA core automatically and which will help you to capture it Now since this is also implemented inside FPGA logic, the larger the sample size you specify here, the larger will be the size of this ILA circuit. So if you say... so this circuit is also going to build using LUT, SLIFFLOP and BLOCKTRAP. So if we increase the size too much, it will consume most of the FPGA and sometimes what happens is there won't be any space for implementing your U.S. Circuit, all the area is taken by this D.V.A.C circuit.

Okay so we need to do it carefully again that mostly come from experience how much data you need to capture. For SPA, okay 2000, 2048 or 1024 samples are more than enough and you click next and just say finish now. So he'll say like creating D.VAC core. core, so he is basically designing the circuit which will be integrated with your circuit. Now your circuit has changed you should go and save. And what happens is the information that you just added using that GUI, which signals to debug and which clock should be used for debugging, how many samples should be captured.

Those information also gets stored in the XTC file, Zynq's design constraint. Okay? Say file saves that information also which saves your pin information as well as the clock constraint. OK, now suppose you are debugging some internal signal, that's it, you are done with everything, but for our particular case we are debugging this input-output signal to, so remember to give the pin location for them. So if you don't specify pin location for the topmost module, Vivado will give you error during Vitchin. In the final step, when you go for generate bitstream, you didn't give location constraint so I cannot build your circuit. So you should give pin constraint,

so remember let's keep this constraint. So clock is our clock, well clock Y9. Now send done is an output. Okay, so let me just assign it to a LED. So once send done is done, it will come to an LED but most probably we won't be able to see it because things are happening so fast. But still let me assign it. So I'm giving it to T22. Load data is an input that I will give to a push button. So I'm going to give it to the center one, P16, reset. Okay let's give reset to the center one. Doesn't matter you can give whatever you want okay so load data let me give it to the top button which is T18 this one let me give it to the middle one P16 SPI clock again SPI data they are output so let me just give it

2 LEDS each, so T21 and U22. Okay, Data in. So this is where I specify what data I want to send. This I am going to give to my slide switches. So I have eight slide switches. So what I'm going to do is if I want to sell some particular data, I will change my slides or your deep switches to a particular value whichever I want to Then I will press this push button, which one? LoTATA T18, the top push button. Then it will be sent over these two wires. That's the idea. OK. F22, G22, AMOS-V4, H22, F21, H19, H18, H17, M15, M15 H17, H18 H19, F20, M20, F20 H18, H18, X19, F21, H22, G22 and F22. Remember to change the IU standard from B4 to LVC MOS18.

All of them. Otherwise during bitgen you will again get error. Okay done save that also. That will be also saved in the same XTC file. Okay so we have ILA core here, we have pin Information here, come back to design run okay he's still saying synthesis is up today so no need to force update now go ahead and run implementation and generate pitch stream or directly click generate pitch stream. Now this is going to take far more time this time because now we Vivado has to create this debug circuit and he needs to integrate that circuit with the US circuit. So it is going to take quite some time.

Okay? So we have completed our bitstream generation. So as usual, let's see, program the bot. Okay. Now during programming before you have seen only the bit file. Now once you add this ILA core, the debug core, you will see two files are there. There is a 1-bit file and there is a File with extension dot LDX Now this is the file which has the information about which signals you are going to debug Only this file is sent to the FPGA This file is kept locally so that when you run So, let's talk about the name of the debug signals that you have added.

OK, so choose it and program. Now once you program, unlike before, now you will get this window also. OK, this looks like a simulation waveform window. No, that is not the case. This is the debug window. and you will see the internal signal in real time in this wave window and on this tab if you see, now you will see under this FPGA name hardware underscore ILA underscore one This is the debug core that you inserted to your design That is also listed And in the window you can, or this is coming from that LTX file He automatically lists all the signals that you chose for debugging and zoom in, zoom out everything you can do.

Same as the simulation window. Now if you want to see what is the current status of the signals, okay? You want to immediately view what is the status of these signals inside SPGA. You just click on this button, run trigger immediate for ILA core. You click it. It will take few seconds because the debug core need to capture this signal. We specified 2048 so he needs to collect 2048 samples and send it to your computer through the JETA interface. So that's going to take a few seconds. So it is not very, very real time but real enough.

And you can see the current status here. So it's showing like all input data is zero, SPA data output is one, SPA clock output is one and load is zero, done is zero. So let's see whether our code is really working on board. My camera is not so great. So you can see two LEDs are constantly on, okay? These two LEDs correspond to the serial clock and the serial data that we assign. And remember when the clock is not active it will be always on and when the data is not active, it can be one or zero depending upon the previous state. Anyway these are the four slide switches which are used for specifying The input data, okay? And currently all of them are in off state. What I'm going to do is I'm going

to turn four of them on, okay? The four lower bits. So currently my data is 1,1,1, 1, sorry, 0.0.0.1.1.0, okay? So this is my data in now if I press the upper button which So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, VDMA, UART, ILA, XSct, SD card, OSCO, ILA-C, OSCO-C, OSCO C, OSCO C, OSCO C, OSCO C, OSCO And if that condition happens, he will capture 2048 samples of all these debug signals and send it to you. And you can visualize it here. So here also you need to specify the conditions for capturing the data. Otherwise each time you have to manually press it, and it is impossible to press this button at the exact same time while SPI data transmission happens.

It's not possible, right? So you need to set it using so-called the trigger condition. So for that you need to come to this window, trigger setup and there is a plus sign here And when you press it he will again show all these signals. Okay now what is our condition? What is the best condition to see SPI data transmission? I will say when my load data, when this signal goes from low to high, okay? When this signal becomes active that is the signal for SPI data transmission. So if I start capturing data when this signal goes from low-to-high I can see what is happening after that certain condition, specific condition. So I should be able to see what happens when the signal goes low

to high, that is when my controller is supposed to send data. So I will choose this signal again how you do it depends upon your particular application so you need to find out which is the appropriate condition for capturing the data again that you learn from experience and you need to add it here So I'm choosing this one, Load Data and there's an option here, Value. I am setting it rise 0 to 1. Okay so what I'm basically saying is when the load data signal rises, when the signal goes from low to high start capturing that. Okay and I know that This is the condition for starting an SPI transmission.

So if I start capturing data, when this condition happens, I will be able to see how data gets transmitted through SPI by looking at the other segment. Okay? So this is one condition you need to do. Now on the left there are a few options. One is the settings. There is only one option that is interesting, the trigger position. So this is basically the trigger, this is what we call as a trigger, the condition for capturing the data. Here, trigger position window, here you are specifying how much data should be captured before this condition happens and how much data should be captured after this condition happens.

Again, this is same as oscilloscope. So these are the pre-trigger condition, okay? Sometimes you are interested to see what happens before this particular condition happens. In some cases, you are interested in seeing what happens after this condition happens. And sometimes you want to see both cases. What happens before this condition happens? happens after this. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA- So, maybe it's perfectly fine to put it to 0 even or 10. That means I'll capture 10 before this condition and 2038.

So remember our total capture size is 2048 which we set when we chose the debug option last time. Okay so if I set 10 here, 10 samples before this condition, 2038 samples after this condition. So again depends on the application, you can choose the appropriate value and putting it back to 1024. Now when he actually captures the data, you will see the window here, that information in the window here And in the window you will see this marker, the trigger marker. So this marker is basically saying where this condition happened.

Okay so you will have 1024 samples before this condition, 1024 samples after this condition. OK, so you need to do this much setup. You need to set the trigger, you need to set the trigger position. Now once you have done that much, we are ready actually. You need to click this option. So previously we were running, clicking this one. If you click this one he will immediately capture data and show it to you here. Now if you Click this one, he will wait for this particular condition to happen and only when that condition happens he will send data here and will be displayed to you. Now let me change my input data slide position to 1010 and 1101 okay so let me quickly show you that is the case so my data here is AD which is 101011011, that is the condition I set on the slide switches. Now I am pressing this button so we basically say we are arming the ILA Dogekan Lacer and If you come to this one status tab here, you will see like it will say core status. This is the status of the diva core inside the FPGA. He's waiting for the trigger. He's waiting For this condition to happen so that condition has not happened. Okay? That condition has not happen. He's waiting for that to happen. If that happens he'll capture the data and show that to you.

OK, so now let me press the upper push button which was connected to the load data signal. OK I'm going to press it. I pressed it as soon as I press it you'll see like capturing, here show a printer print here and you can see the wave window got updated. OK? And you can see how the signals are changing. So this is where this condition happened. So if I zoom in You can see this is where the point load data went high. Immediately after that, my clock and data are changing. Let's see whether it is happening in proper way.

So we need to look at the rising edge what I am seeing. I am seeing 10101101 which is exactly this one. So remember in SBI we need to send most significant MS bit first so the order should be 10101101 and that is what is exactly happening here and once that happens you can see DUNSENT, that signal also went up. Okay so I can say with confidence now my circuit is functioning properly on the hardware. Okay now let's come back to our debug core insertion. So as i mentioned before sometimes what happens is Vivado, during synthesis he will optimize your code and it will be used to So, Vivado, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, ILA- but two flip-flops, okay? Two flip-flop. That is actually saying the state of my system.

I want to see how the states are changing and most systems which have state machine, one of the interesting signals to add for debugging is state and you can also see this is an internal signal, this is not an input output signal, this some signal inside your design. Most of the signals he will preserve, for example I want to see this counter so I can go here and just search for counter and see he's showing counter here which is same as counter. This three in the bracket is basically saying it's a 3-bit counter which is exactly same as this one or you want to see how this data count changes so you can search for data count and he's here, you can directly add it, no issue.

But when I'm trying to add state, yes state is there, you can see it but Vivado has completely changed the state variable okay so you simply declare that state but he has renamed it to something like FSM underscore 1-HOT underscore state 0 and all. And there are many signals. So now I have no clue how these signals here correspond to my two bits here, because here I can see many. It is not only 0 and 1. It is like 0, 2, 3, 3, and all. So I have no clear how they are related. So if I add these signals to my DVA core and if I view them, it's really difficult to find out what is happening.

Now Vivado has the capability to analyze your design and find out whether you have a state machine if you write it in a proper way and he has specific optimization for state machine to make it a better state machine. That's what he has done. So he has done something called one-hot encoding for state machine. I don't know, have you heard about it before? In digital I hope you have heard one hot encoding. That means in the state variable only one bit remain high and everything will be so low You can go and check it up.

So he found there is a state machine. I have a state machine And the best way to encode my state machine is using something called one hot. So that's what he has done. Now the problem is because of that mapping I'm not able to add it to my debug and find out what is happening. So, what I would prefer is I need to maintain the same signal name. I don't want to change my signal name so that I can easily debug them. Okay? So, I need to tell Vivado that don't change my signal name, preserve it as such so that Ican debug it.

Now, that is very helpful in debugging But once you find the problem and do all kind of debugging, You should let Vivado to do whatever he wants to do. Otherwise that may affect the performance of your circuit. Okay? You are putting a constraint like he cannot completely optimize your circuit. So you don't want to do it. But during debugging we are not worried about performance. We are worried about the functional correctness. So at this time what I want to tell him is don't change my signal name. Now, to do that we use something called attributes.

Okay in Videlog you haven't seen attributes before. They may look like comments but they are not. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA- This is some information to the implementation tool in our case Vivado. And this is telling Vivado you need to preserve the signal. Now these attributes they have nothing to do with Videlog. Attribute syntax has to do with videlog, but this keep, okay? Keep is a type of attribute that has nothing to do it with Videlo. So, what all attributes are available depends upon the particular software you are using.

So this KEEP attribute is understood only by Vivado software. If you use KEEP attribute in QATAS, the other one for Intel, he might not understand. He will have some other attribute which QATAS understands. So keep that in mind. So I'm adding this attribute now, now since I changed my Videlog code, I have to go from synthesis again. So I have to resynthesize again and once synthesized again go to the debug and check whether the variable is preserved or not. OK, synthesis is completed so choose Open Synthesize Design OK Or you can directly click here Open Synthesized Design Now let's go to debug once again Keep AutoLets Now let me try to find Let me search for State And here it is So state 2-bit Which is exactly the way how I declare

Now I can add it To my debug signal and go to implementation with stream-gen, then program and do debugging. Okay? So this is a very good feature. This is one of the most powerful, most useful features for Xilinx and Vivado, in system debugging. You will have to use it under many scenarios. Even if your simulation is working perfectly, many cases the system may not be working consistently. You will find like sometimes it's not working, sometimes it's working and again it's your experience based on which you determine which signal should be added to the debug code so and which trigger condition you should set so that you can find what is going wrong. So that's based on

Based on experience, based on practice, you will have better idea like which are the possible signals for debugging. So that concludes our tutorial. If you're interested, you can go ahead and implement it and test it with the state variable. Yeah, it will definitely work. Okay, thank you.
