Hello, in this video I will give you a brief overview of the OLED display on ZedBoard before we actually start the coding to control the OLED display from the Zynq chip. Okay so this is the OLED display, this is the part number, so if you want to know more details about the display you can download the user guide for this particular OLED display and you can find all the details there. I'm just giving a brief overview of the display. So, the OLED display on ZedBoard, it is a 128x32 display that means it has 128 columns and 32 rows so total number of pixels is 128 times 32.

Now this entire display is actually divided into so-called four pages and each page has eight rows and 128 column making it to 128 by 32 in total. So when you look at the data sheet, they will be using the term columns or comets to indicate rows and they'll be calling the columns as segments. Now this is a figure of page 0 alone so remember there are four such pages. So page Each zero has rows from 0 to 7 and columns 0 to 127. And whenever a row and column intersect, it makes a pixel. So you can see like there are 8 pixels in one column per page.

And when we send data to the display, this pixel will be taken as the least significant bit and this pixel will take as most significant bit for a particular corner. Now how actually the OLED display works? So from the outside you are just seeing a display, actually there are much to that display actually On the backend it has a dedicated controller, another integrated circuit is there on the backside of the display and it also has a random access memory called the GD-RAM or graphics display data RAM. So what basically happens is inside this RAM there are multiple rows of data so actually there are over 32x128 RAM and each location in the RAM is mapped to each column on the display.

So the idea is very simple, if you want to display something using OLED first you will write that data to the GD RAM and the display will take the data from this GD RAM and just display it on the OLED panel. Now this is a monochrome OLED, that means you can see either black or white so that's why in the previous slide it is written LSB and MSB if you make a bit high you will see it as white if you make a bit zero you will see that's black So you write some data here and he will take that data and use that data to turn on and off the LEDs in each column.

So based on what data you write here, you will see the corresponding display here. That's the basic idea. Now let's take an example and try to understand this further. So suppose you want to display a character A on the display, okay? So first thing you need to decide is how big your character should be. Your character can be a single page, it can spread across multiple pages or it can be even smaller than a page. Okay so there is no fixed size for the character. As a designer its up to you to define how big each character should be So here I'm taking an example like each character I am going to display will be of size 8 by 8 pixels, okay?

So each character will occupy 8 corners as well as 8 rows. That's the case I am taking. You can take other sizes 4 by 4 or 8 by 5 or 5 by 8, whatever size you prefer. Now here, this is how you will see the character AXI. There are 8 pixels this way, 8 pixels this way making it 8x8. Now you can see some of the pixels are white in color and some of the So, by taking the size 8x8 you need to store this particular sequence in the GT-RAP. 4.0, 4.0C ‐ all of them are actually hexadecimal. 4.07 C4A, 0.9 4.7 C4.0, 0.0. We usually keep the last column and the last row all pixels to zero because when you have multiple characters and multiple lines, okay?

Only if you leave some black pixels, you can distinguish between characters and rows. That's why we keep these two empty, although it is an 8-by-8 display. Now as a designer, it is your duty to find out what is the sequence of numbers you need to use to display a particular character. So either you can manually do it or there are software available such as this one, GLCdephone Creator. You can go there and you can specify the size under 8 by 8 and you can draw a particular character for example here what it says is character 1 its corresponding ASCII code is 40mm and how it should be displayed on the screen so I can say like 1 and you will be able to save this information for creating the bitmap.

So we actually call this as a bitmap, so any picture that you want to display on OLED, you need to find the corresponding bitmap, which pixel should be on and which pixel should be off basically. Okay? Now this is exactly what I told before you need to find a bitmap for all the characters, totally characters if you are applying to display some picture you have to find the corresponding bitmap for each pixel and store it in the GD-R. And when you are storing it in the GD RAM, this is the order you should store. This is considered as the LSPIT and this is considered as MS-PIT.

That's why we are calling this column as 0x40. Again remember you have to do it column wise here not row wise because some other display we do it row wise but here it is actually column wise. When you interface ZYNC with OLED, the main interface is an SPA interface and you are going to send data to the GD RAM as well as some of the commands to the OLED controller through this SPA interface. So this character information, the bitmap and all, you will be sending it as so-called data. In addition to that, you will be also sending some commands. For example, you will have to tell the display controller on which particular page this character should be displayed or starting

from which column this particular character should be display. So I can have A here or somewhere here or somewhere here. So this information should be also provided to the OLED controller. and only will display properly. So, you can find out you have to follow a particular sequence immediately after you power on the system. Okay? So more details you can find in the data sheet and this is the particular sequence you should do to initialize the OLED display or OLED controller. Only after this sequence is executed, you can actually start displaying characters or pictures using the OLED.

So initially you need to make so called the Vbat signal high, then you need to wait for 2 millisecond, then you need send a special command, hex-AE, to turn the display off, then you need to apply a reset signal to the OLED, then you need to wait two milliseconds, then you have to configure the internal charge pump, you need to configure the pre-charge value, then make Vbat 1, again wait for 2 milliseconds, So you have to set the contrast for the display, you have to turn the scan direction from left to right, right to left.

For the display you need to set the comb pin and finally you need to turn the display on. Okay some more details about each of these commands. You can read in the datasheet if you are interested what each of them does but this is a sequence you should follow immediately after powering up the system. After this you can actually use the OLED. Okay so that's about this video, so in the next video we will actually start the coding.
