Hello and welcome back. So in this video we are going to start the coding for the OLED controller. So remember in the last video when we discussed the architecture of the OLED, we have seen like it communicates with the Zynq chip through the SVA controller. Now we have already used an SVA controller, we have actually designed an SVA Controller in the previous tutorial. So we are going reuse that SVA controller to build a complete OLED display. So I am going to start it as a new project, before that this was the code for SPA controller, we are going to reuse it.

So what I will do is I will go ahead and remove this skip attribute which we use for debugging purpose to see the internal signals but they should keep attribute as it will prevent Vivado from optimization so we don't want that to happen. So removing the attributes so that Vivado is free to optimize whatever variable he wants I'm going to file and start a new project and I'm going to call it OLED control and RTL project. In all our previous projects we used to skip this screen because we didn't have already built code but in this case that's not the case, we already had the code for SVA controller and we can reuse it. Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to add the code for SBI controller to my new project. So we'll go to add files

and you need to know where the source codes are stored actually. So any VVado project you take inside that one important file is this.xpr file which is the signings project file or the VVIDO project file. And another important folder is this one, the project name dot sources folder where all your source codes will be saved. Okay so if you want to share your project with someone else the only two folders that you need to share this XPF file as well as the dot sources folder. All other folders are temporary so you don't have to share it with other people these two are enough actually So let me go inside.sources, you will see two folders, social underscore 1. If you go inside that

you will see your VID low code and there is constraints underscore 1 if you go inside that you will see the XTC file like constraints file okay so this is where by default all source codes are stored and these are the names by default sources underscore 1 and constraints of course you can change it the default name but these are the default names so I'll go to my SPAControl project folder, I will go inside sources, I will go inside sources1 and I will choose this SPAContror and remember to check this option copy sources2 project if you don't check it okay this original source file And here again you can add the constraint file if you already have, we have a constraint file for

SVA controller but most of the pin constraints there are not valid for our OLED control so I'm not adding it. I'll just click next and I'll choose ZedBoard as my target board and finish. Yes now if you forget to add files when you create a new project of course you can Add it later by choosing Add sources and add or create design sources and by choosing Add files instead of Create file you will get the same window and you can go ahead and add the existing source file to your project, no problem. Okay so this is our project and we already have SPA controller here currently that is the top file now I'm going to create a new file So again we are going to do hierarchical design so i'm going to call the top module as OLED

controller and he will be instantiating the SPI controller inside that. Okay, so I'm going to create a new file and going to call it OLED-Control.V but again you can see the option here local to project if you choose local to project he will store this file in the dot sources folder of your current project or you can change it and save the file at some other location. But preferably you always keep all the files. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S Clock, we have OLED, SPI data. We also have output OLED, VDD, we have output OLED V-Batch, we have output OLED, Reset underscore N, I am putting a POS fix underscore N to indicate this is an active low signal that means if you want to reset the OLED controller you need to make

The signal is low, normal operation the signal will be high, output, OLED, underscore DC, underscore R. Again remember this signal is used to choose between whether you are sending data through SVA interface or you are sending some command through the SVA interface so that is the signal That's it. So these are the signals going to our OLED. Now in addition to that, we need an input clock. This is our 200 megahertz right? No 100 megahertz, 100 megaherz onboard clock is coming and you also have the reset signal so we'll assign this reset to one of the push buttons then use it whether output should be a regtype or a wiretype, we will see it while we are doing the code.

Okay so this makes the basic input-output interface. The first thing I'm going to do is I am directly going to instantiate my SPA controller inside the OLED controller. So I'll go ahead and take the interface for SPA controller and put it here and I will SPAController, SC, SoC, SPAContptroller, SPAContrawler, SPAContcontroller, SPACont roller, SPAControlling, SPAController, SPAControler, SPACont SPAContrower, SPAControllers, SPAControlled, SPACont SPAControler, SPAControwler, SPAControuler, SPAContrroller, So I can directly connect there and we have SPI data which is this one so we can connect it.

So since these signals are connected to the output port of an instance, they should be wire type. So no need to change them, they remain wire type or you can explicitly say output wire or just leave it black. Perfect! Now other signal, data in, load data, done send, those signals are currently not available So these signals should be generated within the module and interface with the SVA controller. So whenever we want to send some data, we'll put that data here, we will make this signal high and we will wait until this signal goes high.

That means that data has been sent through the SVA interface. Now in the slides, okay, we have seen that you have to send a specific sequence when and the system starts up so that the OLED controller is initialized. And that is what we are going to do next. Now you'll see this sequence follows a particular order, right? First you need to make the signal higher then wait for this thing, for this thing. So the best way to implement this logic is through a state of error. So, we are going to write a state machine following the standard way of writing state machines in Vilog. And that state machine will initialize our OLED control. So, that's what we are going

to do. Again, I'm not declaring any signal at this point of time. We will add the signal as we go along as required. Okay? So, I'm just declaring always at post search. Let's Picking End, IF reset, okay so every statement change when you reset it should go to a non-state so I'm calling to going to use a register called state to store my current state and I'm saying when I power up I'll be in the idle state. Now you need to declare all these registers as well as and then we will have to declare the state. So, I need to know what is the size of the state which is basically a bunch of flip-flops, which will store the current state of the system.

I need to how many states are there so that it will be log to the base of two number of states. At this point, I really don't know how many states there. So, we'll add the states and finally find out how many states they are there, then we will declare state. state, okay? Anyway we'll have to declare it at some point of time the size and okay, I just state. I'm just declaring it and the size we will change as we go along and ID we usually declare it as a local pattern and ID equal to equal to D, 0. Again I have not specified what is the size of this constant because I don't know at this point what is the and the size. But it will perfectly fine, this will also work as long as the number of states

is less than 2 to the power of 31 minus 1. Okay so on reset we are in idle state and along with that we need to initialize some of other data also for example the signals to the OLED control. When we start, what should be these signal values? Fine? So I'm going to say all at VDD is 1. From where I am getting this information or this are coming from the data sheet. Okay, VDD is one and what is VDD and all is given here. This is power supply for logic. So we are making it high at the beginning. And since I'm using it inside AlwaysBlock, So of course it should be a regtype. Now you will see all the signals we are going to use inside the state machine, inside the always block so essentially all of them should be regtype.

So VDD is one, OLED vbat is also one, OLED reset is one. I'm not making it under reset, I'm not applying reset to OLED at this point of time, and OLED DC underscore N is also what really doesn't matter, it can be one of zero at the beginning That's it! Okay, so this much I am going to do when I press the reset button. There is something wrong here, let's see OLED reset underscore N, okay, this reset underscore N Now if there is no reset, else begin. And we write the state machine so we use the K-State, K-State and K-State.

So remember to put indendation so that your code is readable. So we are in idle state. Let's look what is the initialization sequence. I am in idle state and as soon as I remove the reset what I'm going to do is I'm going So, let's take VBAT, it is already 1 but still for completion let me make it 1 again, but it will be already 1 when you come to understand. Vbat is 1, again reset also 1, so reset is also 1, now other signal again if you prefer you can change them, so DC I am going to make So, I need to send a bunch of commands before I can write to the display.

So, DC, reset, Vpad and VDD, I'm going to make it zero because VDD is what? So, it's interesting this signal is actually active low. It's not active high. If you want to apply power, the signal has to be made actively low. That depends upon how it is connected on the PCB. Again I am getting the information by reading that data sheet. Ok so this much is done in the idle state. So we have done this part. Apply reset make V-bat equal to 1. Apply reset, oh we didn't apply the reset. It should be active low. So I need to correct this, remove reset and make V-part equal to 1.

Okay, so reset should be 1 here, my mistake. Anyway we will make reset low after 2 nanoseconds. So now what I need is I need to wait for 2 millisecond. Okay? So there should be some circuit which generates 2 millisecond delay. So we have already seen circuits to create a delay. So we are going to make a circuit which will give me 2 milliseconds delay. Okay, that's what I'm going to do next. So I'll call it delaygen.v or something. And this is how you do, we'll use a counter and remember this guy is also going to run at 100 MHz.

OK, and we need to find the counter value so that when that counter value reaches we have 100 MHz delay. That's the basic logic we are going to use. So here you get a clock and whenever you need a delay you make this particular signal high, delay enable high. So you're basically telling the delay generator enable the delay generation. I want to get the delay and if you are done, you have an output signal, output reg, it will be which will basically say he has generated that much delay. So all these interfaces you will see between modules there is some kind of handshaking happening one module will be asking another module to do something by using some enable signal or

valid signal and other module will tell this module I have done by sending a done signal or ID signal, something like that. So this time we call as a producer-consumer model, which is a very popular handshaking methods when we do for wheel-assigned design. Okay so of course we need a counter and what should be counter value? We can see our clock is 100 megahertz, so period is 100 200KM, K, stored in memory and we need 2 millisecond, 2 divided by 1000, So my counter should be able to count till 200000 how big should be my So I need 200,000, 18, so I will say 17 down to 0, count, now how the counter will work?

So I'll say always at cross-section clock, if someone asks me to create a delay and it's counter, counter not equal to 1 2 3 4 5 what I will do is I will increment the counter else that means if the signal is low or if the counter is not this value okay if it is less than this So this is the value, or more than this value, doesn't matter, I'll make counter back to 0. Will it become more than this one? No, this will not become more than that because this condition won't be satisfied once it reaches this value, okay so it won't go to this condition, so it will stay at this particular value.

Now we need to generate this delay done signal, so what I'm doing is always set again for such clock. VIBE, XSCT, XS Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct. I have generated this much delay, TIP-P1, S. That means if the signal is low, if the control value is not this one, I will make this signal low. So basically what is going to happen? If you want to create 2 milliseconds in there, you'll make this signal high and you will wait for this signal to go high. So when this signal high, the counter will keep on incrementing. At some point it will reach this particular value. This signal will go high.

And once you see this signal is high, you'll make this signal low so that counter goes back to 0 which will make delay done go back to 0. Okay? So this is what we call as a producer-consumer model of Handshake. OK, so I'm going to take this generator and I'm going instantiate that also under my OLED control delay gen. Let's call it DEG. Again we need to do port mapping. Enable. Delay done. I'm going connect the 100 MHz clock here. This signal, let me call it something like Start Delay, so this signal should come from your state machine and maybe we can call it delay done itself or whatever name you prefer okay so we need to declare them if you don't declare

them Vivado will show them in blue okay so remember to declare so let me take them and go to the top start delay is coming from the state machine that is inside and always works so of course It should be a regtype and delay done is an output from a module. That means it should be wire type. Okay, that's fair. Let's come back to our state machine. So I did this much. Now what I need is I need to create these two millisecond delays. So what I'll do is I'll create a state called delay state and in the next clock I will switch to that delay state.

Okay so let's write the delay state, so delay will be also a local pattern, delay equal to delay1. So here what am I going to do? I'll make this signal high, start delay, I'm going You need to initialize that signal also under reset, so when I press reset, I'll make sure you need to make all the registers inside a state machine do some default value under recent condition. So remember to do that. So it is reset, 0, okay, 0 under reset and when I come To this state, I am making that signal high and I will stay in this state until this delay done comes.

Okay, delay done comes means 2 millisecond has elapsed, I can go to the next state. Okay? So next state let me call it, okay something called init state you can give what name you want. Now we need to declare init also, init equal to 82, init, what we should do next, wait for 2 millisecond, we have to send this particular command, send display of command that we need to send through the SP interface. So that's what we are going to do next. So what we should do, we need to send that command AE through this SPI interface.

So what I'm going to write is SPI data, is P-H-E. Now remember the SPI controller how he works so he needs to get the data here and he needed to see this signal going high then only he'll So that signal is... So, we need to connect all the signals here. So, SBI data, I'm going to connect to data in and it should be declared that is 8 bit wide. So 7 down to 0 SBI data and under reset initializing data is optional but it is mandatory to initialize all control signal but let's initialize to 0 under reset, so SBI data becomes A. The other signal is let me call it SBI load data, one big B1 which will basically tell the SBI controller this one, load data okay new data is available for transmission. So this signal I should connect here, and we need to declare it. Also inside state machine, so rush type, and initialize to signal. Ok, so we made this signal hot. And you will remain in this state until the SPA controller says he has finished sending. Ok? How he sends it? So let me call this as SPA done, let's declare it its output from a audio so need to declare it as wire type and we'll say if this signal goes high will go to next state and if the signal is not high we are going to stay remain in the same state okay we are waiting for the SPA controller to send the data once he sends the signal Now remember the complete SPF protocol, so he will look at this data, where is the state

machine here? He will look at these data, he'll start sending and finally he's coming to this done state and he will remain in that done state until the load data becomes low. So what we'll do is here I will say SPI load data is CPro and let's say what we are supposed to do next. So in the sequence we have finished this much and we need to remove the reset actually so we'll say OLED RST underscore N1, T0 and then we have to wait for again 2 millisecond okay now we already have a I have a state here, here which will wait for 2 millisecond but the problem here is from this state we'll always go to the init state okay so we will be stuck in a loop like if I just write like state is let's say delay just like that so from here

I will go to delay and I will wait for two millisecond I will come back here Again, I will go back here. That's the problem. So one way to avoid this is you can create another state maybe called delay1 and copy paste the XR code here and call it delay1. This is one way to do it but it's not very efficient so if you see we need two millisecond here also so we'll have to create another delay state there also. So this is one common scenario which we will face when writing state machine. Okay, so let me take a general case and try to explain that.

So suppose you have a state machine, we have let's say states S1, S2, S3, S4 and from S1 you want to go to S2, from S2 you want to S3, from S3 you want to back to S2 and if you are S3, next time you want to go to S4. So this is the similar scenario. So under this what you have to do is you need some indication, some kind of a flag to indicate from which state you came to S2 so that you can decide from S2 to which state you should go. So I will show you a simple technique how we will do. So I'm crea- So, I'm selecting another register called something like Next State.

So next state ‐ what I will put in next state is to which state I should go once I go to the delay state. Okay? here we have state delay and here also I will say next state is okay so I'm going to delay from delay where should I go I will say init instead of init here I'll just write next state see so from idle I am going to delay but I have stored this information here, next state is init and I will come to delay. Once delayed on state will be next state so what is the value here init so I'll go to init now in init what I will do is next state where I want to go I want to Go for this remove reset. Okay, so I will just say reset. Okay so if I go to delay from idle state,

from delay state, I'll go to init state. From init state when I go to the delay state, next state will be so called the reset state. So we'll declare all of them. All that I think is called reset underscore n, so we'll declare this state also. Okay, reset equals to PT3. Or you can make another variable called previous state also which will indicate from which state you came to delay state and here you can check if previous state is so-and-so state is so and so. So you have a if else if or another case statement Under the delay state to decide which state you should go from the delay state based on from each state you came to the delay state So we need to declare next state also Again, the size of next state will be same as

State which will decide at the end Let's initialize next state also to idle state Really doesn't matter that you initialize this one but let's initialize to OK, so we are in reset state. What I will do is I will remove the reset actually. Reset equal to 1. And after this I had to again delay for 2 millisecond. So I think in the slide I forgot to put this condition here. Wait for 2 milliseconds here also. So from this So, I have to again go to the delay state. Same technique we will use. So, we will have static and delay. From delay, we need to go to so called charge pump configuration. Ok, so we will call it charge. We will declare this state. So, I will go back to delay state and again I will come back to charge.

OK, so now we are in charge pump. What I basically have to do is send a command over SPI So it will look again exactly like this. For which command you need to send? It is... OK, there are two values. This is a command and this is a value for so called the charge form. So you need to send two values through two SPI transactions. So this I will say 8D load SPI, if SPI done SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, OLED control, this state machine is running at 100 MHz. So if you make SBI load data equal to 0 here, and if you go to the next state, the problem is by the time you reach the next state the SBI control he won't see this signal because he's running at 1 by 10th of the clock frequency

at which this state machine is running. So that's the problem, that issue is there here also but it's okay here because from here you are going to a delay state and you are waiting for like 2 millisecond by that time you will definitely see it. But here that is not the case. From this discharge from, you send AD. Next, you have to send 14, 0x14 through SBI. Okay? That is the next state. So as I mentioned before, the problem is this state machine, he's stuck at this done state until he sees the load data equal to zero. Now this signal, you are making it zero but by the time you go to the next state, he won't see it because his frequency 1 by 10th of this one. So we need a special state, let me call it waitSBI and I will wait

in that state until the SPI controller sees this signal. How do you know whether he saw this signal? As soon as he sees this signal, he'll make this signal look so that's how I am going to find out whether the SPI controller really saw this load data equal to 0 signal. So what I will do is wait SPI and I will try it if not SPI turn, I think that is the signal, SPI done. That means this signal became 0, that means he actually saw the signal equals to 0. Okay so where we have to go? We had to go to next step which is basically again sending So let's take some data through SPI 1.4, OK so let me call it State is Charge Pump, OK let's call it Charge Pump 1 or something Charge Pump 1, so let's stick there right here

885, and code is smaller, exactly same, charge pump, SPA data is this time 14. 14, SPA load data done, SPA loads 0. Okay so same issue here also, same as our delay thing. So after this date also I need to go and wait for SPA to make this signal equal to low. So if I just write like this, he will come back here, he'll come back here. He'll come back here. He will come back so it's in an infinite loop. Okay? So here also what I will do is state equal to next state I'll write. Okay. Next state I'll right and here what I should I should write, I should write next state is charge pump 1, charge pump 1. So from here he comes here from here he goes here and here again type next state is okay after charge pump

I have to configure so called the pre-charge, so... Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPLite, XSct, SD card. So, Charge pump 1 not declared. So there are some spelling mistake. Charge pump 1. Okay, so now you repeat the same thing. So I can copy paste this instead of charge pump, this is pre-charge. Precharge, we are going to send D9, D9, SPALODE, SPA data, after that I have to send F1, so I am going to call it Precharge 1, so we'll have Precharge 1 here and we are going to send F1 there, after that Vbat equal to 0. So let's call it next state is Vbat on, and there we say Vbat on and after that again wait for 2 millisecond so same technique state is

delay and you also have to say next state so that from delay he will go to the correct state So after we wait for 2 milliseconds, set contrast. Okay so let me call the next state contrast. Now we have to declare all of them. Precharge one. In contrast again same SPI transaction 81 and FF. So let's say contrast, let's say 81, we'll go to contrast1 and then something called segment remap. Okay you need to send this back, a0. Okay let's say segment remap or something and there is 0. Be very careful when you copy paste actually and from segment remap We are setting the scan direction. Let's call it something like scan direction and we need to send CC of scan direction.

We are setting Compin, so let's call it as S3MAP-C0, I think I messed up somewhere, contracts FIF, S3MAB-A0, A0 Then scanDirection is C0, okay, third one is correct. Now we have the GOMPIN, DA, GOMPIM1, next one, 00. We have to declare all these things so contrast1 and segueMap. ScanDirection GOMPINS, GOMPs1, this should be GOMPIND1. OK, so we have obtained, CTRL-D is the shortcut to duplicate a line, so you can use that, scan direction, I think there is only one, yes scan direction, yeah, there is only 1, Compin and Compin, and finally it was something called the display mode OK, so we are So I'll send a special command, it is A5 and if that command is sent, it will turn on every pixel

on the OLED. So we'll see whether that is working or not. Okay so let's again copy paste the same thing and I am just writing something like 4 display or something and it is A5, A5 and let me say next state is something called done and stuck at this done. So in this video I am doing only two videos. So this is the initialization part. So what I will do is I'll keep my state machine in the done state forever once it reaches done state. And in the next video, we will continue with the state machine and add the states for sending data to the display.

display, and done. So 14, 15, 16, 17, 18. So we have 18 states as of now. Now to encode 18 states we need 5 bits minimum so this state machine I will declare 4 down to 0 same way next state also I will declare four down to zero. Ok let's quickly go through the code one second. Here you can see some copy paste issue. So from display, next data I have written display so we are stuck actually here It should have been Careful display Okay, please correct it Now let's simulate and see where the things are working as expected now in this project you'll have multiple modules Okay Now which module should be implemented?

We usually choose by right clicker and say set as top and currently audit control is our top module So this is the one which will be implemented when we run synthesis and implementation. Now for simulation This is not how you choose which module should be simulated if you have many modules in the same project, you should go to settings and simulation here and here you can choose which is the top module for simulation anyway now it is all a control now if you want to simulate our SP8 controller You have to, what does the name mean? I don't remember.

OK, SPI control. OK, so we have changed this to SPI control and it will simulate PI control. Now it will simulate a SPI controller actually. Again, this is how we choose. OK, let me change it back to, back to OLED control. OK, and run simulation, behavioral simulation. OK, these are our top level signals from OLED control. If you want to see the signals in this sub-modules, you can add them to the waveform. So what we usually do is right click and say new divider and say delay generator. And I click the delay generator here.

Right click and add to it. So all the way from delay generator comes here. NewDivida, let's call it SPI controller something and right-click SP controller It is showing the instance names here okay not the module name these are the instance names we used DG and SC so right click and say add to it fine so let's restart and clock, force clock, 0, 1, 10 nanosecond, Reset, let's force constant, apply reset for some time okay now let's remove the reset force constant, 1, okay constant, can reset is gone Now the state should be changing, so we went 0, I think idle state, we came to 1, which is state one is the delay state and we are somehow stuck at delay state? No, it's two millisecond.

Yeah okay, so we came to the delay state then we went to state 3, which is the reset one, OK, OLED SPI, Kriaxo here something is happening. I sent the OLED in state two. So what we write in state two? In its state. So in its state we are sending AE and remember we are sending the MS bit first so this is 10101110 which is AE so that is correct actually. And let's keep on running. First thing we are back in some delay state, from 3 so we have, I guess, it is working. This is one issue I can see is this delay enable is always stuck at war in the delay level. See that? This was our counter. So it reached 200, delay done when high and because of the logic the way we have written the

counter is going back to zero and again starting from what but the protocol what we wanted to implement was this will go high then delay enable will go low So we made the start delay high here, and once delay done, we forgot to make it back to 0. So we need to do that. Okay, only other issue that I find is the VDD is constantly stuck. No, VDD is fine. Vbat is somehow constantly stuck. What? Vbat is an active low signal so that also we need to correct here. Vbat, okay, so we need to make it zero. Otherwise everything looks fine.

9 state machine goes till 18 which is the last state and it remains in state 18. So once you are done with simulation, you can go ahead and do synthesis. After synthesis you have to do pin assignment. I have already done it in the background so you need to look at the data sheet, zapboard and see where each pin is connected to the Zynq chip and You do the XTC file and the clock constraint. After that you go ahead and do implementation and generate bitstream. Once you generate bitstream, we will program. So you need to do everything.

We have already done it. Program device and program. Once you program this is how the OLED It should look like, okay? All the pixels are turned on because of our last command, AFI command. So if I press reset it will become dim once I release all pixels turns on. Okay? So that's all in this video. In the next video we will continue, so we will remove this full display and done maybe full display from here and expand the state machine so that we can send some string to the OLED and see it. Thank you.
