Hello all welcome back in the last tutorial on OLED display we have completed the initialization part of OLED and in this video we will actually display some information on OLED. So as you remember this is where we stop, we finished the initialization and we went to a state where every pixel on the OLED display was turned ON ok? So we'll start from this point. Now, instead of turning on all the pixels, we actually want to display some information. So I am commenting out these states and instead of going to this state, we will create a new state. So the first thing that you need to do to display something on OLED is again to send some commands. And in this command, you will basically tell

In which page the data should be displayed. So remember there are four pages, 0, 1, 2, 3 so you need to specify on which page the date should be displayed and you should also specify starting from each column the data should be displayed again there are 128 column so you can specify what is the starting location for displaying the data okay so I'm creating a new state here called Let me call it page address and in this state again you have to send some command through the SPI interface so the command is X22 then SPI load data, take P1 and OLED command data is 0 because this is a command and if SPI done we will make load that back to zero, it'll go to as usual actually, wait SPI so that the SPI controller sees SPI

SPIDUN signal, not SPIDUN signals, he deasserts SPIDUN signals. And next state, I will call it page 881. So here I am sending the command to 2, which basically says this is a command for specifying the page address. Now in the next State, I am actually going to specify the page address. So begin, SPI data, the page address which you want to display. So we'll create a new variable, new register to store this information which page should be used for displaying. I'm simply writing current page here. I will declare the current page and when we reset let's make current page as 0 because initially we want to display starting from the first page, first line. Now there are three pages so I will have to count 0 1 2 3 so basically I need two bits to

specify the page number whether it is 0, 1, 2 or 3. Okay so when we come here first time current page will be 0 which is the start page address then we'll say SPI load data is 1 actually I can simply copy paste this if it's done 0, hit SPI I will increment the current page so that next time once we finish this page, next time when and I go to the same state, current page is more than this. And in the mode that we are using, you can at a given point of time can display only on one page. Okay? So if you want to display on two different pages, you have to configure the start page address twice actually.

So page address 2 and again current page but remember this current page is one more than this one. So if it is 0 here, it will be 1 here. Load is 1, if SPI turn load data is 0 with SPI. Ok so we don't need this one. Ok so next state as I mentioned before you need to specify the page number also you need to specify from which column you need to start the display. So I'm going to a state called column-atrusted, and again it might look very similar, like this, column-atrust, so the command is 1 0. And this command actually embeds two information, It also tells this is a command for specifying quantum address and this zero at the end is also specifying I want to start displaying from quantum address zero. So remember, this is a

8-bit data so one bit is used for specifying this is a quantum address command and remaining bits are used for specifying from which column I want to display. Since there are only 128 columns, you need 7 bits to tell that information. Okay so all remaining bits are 0, that means I want to displace starting from column 0. So load data 1, this is also command data we already I already made it 0, so either you can keep it or remove it. SPI done, load is 0, state weight is PI and from here I will go to the done state. I specified the pages, I specified the column, the only thing now left is the actual sending of data.

Then that data will be displayed on the screen. So the idea is again to use a producer-consumer model, I will write one more module and that module will actually give me the data which has to be displayed on OLED. So that's the idea so that I have better control on what should be displayed on OLEP. So we'll write one more module, that module will ask the OLED controller to display something he will also So tell what should be displayed, then the OLED controller just displays the data. So that's the idea I'm going to use.

So my assumption is there is a signal called send data valid which will be coming from some other module and this signal will become high whenever that modules want to send some data. Okay? Send data valid. OK, let's start like this. When the signal is high we will go to so called the send data state. OK, so let's come to the send data state. OK. Now here things are little bit complicated. So remember from our discussion on how characters are displayed, okay? So remember- SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, SoC, Vitis-Lite, SoC, soC, Vivada, Vitis‐Lite, SoC, Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, inside the PL part and in that memory you will pre-store all these bit patterns which has to be sent to display a particular character and

So this memory will have some address bus going in and it will have some data bus coming out so this is more like a ROM read only memory now to the address bus I I will give the ASCII code corresponding to the character which I want to display. For example, if I want to Display A, I will send the ASCII code for A as the address to this memory and that memory will provide me this entire bit pattern. Okay? Then from that bit pattern, I will take one byte at a time and send it to the OLED display. So remember you have to send 8 column, each one is 8 byte, sorry, each one is 8 bit 1 byte so you will have to send eight bytes to display a single character and SBI can send only one byte at a time. So you have to do eight SBI transactions

So, first thing I am going to do is building this small memory which will store the bit pattern for every character that I want to display. So, I'm applying to display only the ASCII character so there are only 127 characters. And let's go ahead and build that model. So I am applying to display only the ASCII character, so there are only 127 characters. And let's go ahead and build that model. So I am calling it charroam, that be the name of the memory, so clear design source. I'm just calling it create file charroam.v, charroam-finish.

So this is my ROM which is storing all this bit pattern. So it's a ROM, so he takes the address as an input. Now remember the address is the ASCII code for the character which I want to display and original ASCII code it is only 7 bits, 7 bit ASCII code and let me call this the address and he gives the corresponding bit pattern as output. So what should be the width? Each character is encoded using 8 bytes so the output should be 63 down to 0 and let me call it data. Okay, so this is how it looks like from outside. So inside I have to create a memory which is basically a two-dimensional array in Withlo, so, redge. And again remember each location is storing the big pattern for one character.

So each location should be 64 bit wide and this is the name of the memory you can give what a name you want and the depth. Okay so there are 128 characters in ASCII. So you can core 127 down to 0, or 0 down to 127. Both are fine. So this is how you model of memory. Just declare a two-dimensional array but this is the syntax, reg, width, name, depth. I'm going to store the bit patterns here okay for that i am going to use the initial block Picking End, Now you need to find out the bit pattern for every character in ASCII code.

Okay which I have already found out so I'm just copy pasting it. For example, we have A which was 407C. Which you can see here actually. 407C for A, 0.9 for A7C for triple zero. That is this one. That is stored in memory location 65 because the ASCII code for capital A is 65. Similarly, this pattern corresponds to capital P. This corresponds to capital C, so on and so forth. Okay, so some of the initial characters cannot be displayed. There is no display for it. That's why we are storing 0 for those character. You can prefer the ASCII table.

The first character that you can really display is the ASCII 33. So you can go ahead and check. So basically we have capital A to Z, small a to z, number, 0 to 9 and other characters like comma, exclamation, question mark etc. So this is the complete memory contact, or 128 character. Now the idea is when I give a particular address, the code corresponding to that address which is basically the ASCII code should come out. So I will write assign data equal to memory of address. and I place the address immediately that comes from the data will come out which is actually 64 bit fine okay so I'm going to instantiate this also inside my OLED control So let's go to our car over here, let me call it CR and address will come.

Now again my assumption is as I said before some other module is going to tell me which character I want to display on the OLED. Okay so that's my assumption. So that will be coming to my OLED controller from somewhere else. So some module will give me which character I want to display, he will also tell me send data valid I guess, valid he wants to send a data. So these two information will be coming from some other module that's my assumption so this is the character he wants to sent so I am directly connecting that here and this one let me call Carbitmap, this formal port and I'm going to declare it here. It is 64 bit forward. Now let's come back

here. So we are in this state, send data state. We came to this state because I saw somebody wants At the same time, the data to be sent is coming out of this care room. So this is the data you want to send. But remember, this is 64 bit wide and you can send only 8 bit at a time, 1 byte at a time through the SP interface. Okay? So what I add, you need to start sending from MS bit. So, basically from this, Carbit, So, for example, if you have a USB, you can use the USB port, you can use the USB ports, you can do the USB port.

So, for instance, you can go to the USB port and you can use USB port, you can use a USB port, you can use an USB port, you can use your USB port, you can use any USB port, you can use one USB port, you can use another USB port, I'm going to use for loop and load unlike in normal software programming because if you use for loop and you are writing it in an always block that means whatever you write in a for loop that entire thing should happen on the same clock edge which doesn't make sense so what we'll have is again we will have a loop variable but we will change its value only once every clock cycle OK, so I'm going to have a loop variable called byte counter and look at the syntax first then

I will explain. I am writing byte counter times 8 minus 1 minus colon 8 and this byte counter I'm initializing here to 8. Okay now let's see what is actually happening. So this variable is 8. It will be a register, this register is 8. And if you put that value here, you will get 64-1 which is 63 and this syntax basically means the lower index is 8 less than the upper Intex. Okay, so this is same as writing byte counter is byte counter times 8 minus 1 colon byte counter times eight minus one minus eight. Okay, So same thing but if you write like this is not a correct syntax in Vilog although I don't know why it is not a correct syntax this makes perfect sense but basically the tool will say you are using

So this is the upper index and this is basically saying the lower index is less than the upper index by 8. If it is the other way, if the lower index, if the upper index is more than the upper index you will have to say the lower index. So let's see what happens when we have a lower index. So let's say that we have a smaller index, a smaller index and a smaller index. If the lower index is more than the upper index you will have to say plus here and by how much it is more. So this is the syntax so if you want to start from LSPite and go to MS-byte this is how the syntax looks like but in our case we want to start MSPite because that's a requirement for OLED and you need to go to LSPite so the syntax will look something like

OK, so after that we will say SBI load data is 1 and remember till this point this OLED DC underscore n we always used to assign it to 0 because we were sending commands to the OLED controller but this time whatever you are sending this will be stored in that internal RAM, you remember this RAM, GDRAM. Okay so this is treated as data not as a command. So since it is a data this signal should be made one. That is the requirement. Okay now if SPI done okay if this data is done what you need to do is SPI, LOAD, DATA, we will make it 0 and we'll go to our weight SP8 state.

After this state we will go there same reason now we need to check whether we have sent all the 8 bytes for the particular character if we haven't sent all eight bytes we'll come So, let's come back to the same state. If we have sent all the 8 bytes, we will go to some other state. Ok? So I'm checking this byte counter. If byte counter not equal to 1, I'll say... So, we have the byte counter. The byte counter is byte counter minus one. This is basically our loop variable. And we'll come back to the same state because we haven't finished sending OLED bits.

Now as we have finished sending OLED data, we will go back to the dump state. So basically this is the logic. We send one data, one entire character and once we send an entire character we are coming back to downstate and again if someone wants to send more data he'll make this signal high again we will go here and send data so on that so forth now this works perfectly fine until you finish for that is each time I send some data to the OLED, I am going to use a counter and I will increment that counter. Now once the counter reaches say 128 which is the size of one full page, I will know like I have exhausted one entire page so I will have I have to issue that page command again.

So here, which is basically telling me he has finished sending one byte of data, I'll put a counter, let's call it quantum count or quantum address. So I'm incrementing this counter. So each time he sends, this counter will increment. Now when I come back to the done state here, okay, along with this one send data, I will also check what is the current column address. If it is less than 128 no problem, I can keep on sending data to the same page but if it is more or if it is equal to 128, I will have to issue the page command.

So here I will put a condition, send data valid and column address not equal to 128. I will do this one. Else if column address is 128 and there is send data valid that means there's no 128th column. I have to send the next page command. So I will say state is page, page, ADD. So from here I will actually come here and I will send the next Page Command and remember we have already incremented the current page number in the previous state So if it was 0 in the previous case, now it will be 1. So it automatically works. So we added this much.

And this page counter one, okay, we'll have to make it 8 here also because we will go there from there we will come and from there we will go here again. So, but at some point I'll have to make a quantum address to 0 otherwise SoC, Vivado, ILA, ILA-S So, most of the problem take care I guess. Yeah one thing that we missed is the handshaking with other module. So remember I told like some other module will tell me he wants to send some data and we have to tell that module like I have finished sending data once we finish SoC, Vivado, Vitis, XSCT, ILA, ILA- SoC, Vitis and ILA- SoC, ILA is a very good example of Vivado.

SoC, soC, Vivada, ILA has a very good idea of Vivado's SoC, all right? SoC, let me show you how to do this. SoC, we are going back to done because we have finished sending the Android data. So I'm making a new signal sent done. And this is the handshaking signal which is going to go into the guy who is giving me data. and done. Let me again initialize it to 0 at reset, and in this state I'm making it 1, I'm going to done state, and in done state we should make it back to 0 otherwise the other guy he will keep on seeing it okay. Now my assumption is the other module he's also running at the same clock frequency, so if I make it 1 here and I go to done, so we will come here

in the next clock. And by the time I come here he will see this signal is high, he will make his send data valid low but the problem is that signal I will see only in the next clock okay? So the problem is when I come back to done state here I will again see The signal is high, I will send the same character once again. So to avoid it what you can do is instead of directly going to done maybe you can go to a wait state and wait for one clock so that the other module he sees send done is high and he deasserts it. That is one way of doing it or here you can put a condition and send turn is 0, not send turn.

Ok so basically when we come back to turn state he will see send turn is high so he won't go here and here also. Send turn will be high so he wont go here either but on this clock we'll make it 0. So in the next clock, if send data valid becomes high again he will see it and he will work properly. So always keep this in mind the handshaking signal. When two modules are doing handshaking even if you make a signal high the other module will see it only in the next block so only in the Next Clock he will de-assert his valid signal.

So you have to wait one more clock before checking that valid signal, otherwise you will see the same valid signal twice and you'll be sending same data twice which could be problematic, which is problematic actually always. Okay now we have a lot of errors here, we have to correct all of them so let's start declaring. We need to start declaring from page address, page address 1, page address 2, page address PEGD 19, PEGD 1, PEGG 20, PEGR 2, PEGT 21, column address, PEG2, PEGS 2, PIGD 21, column address, PIGG 2, PECG 2, column address PEGG 2, SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, UART, ILA, ILA-SPF, XSCL, ILA.

SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynx, ZynQ, UART, UART, VIDG, ILA,. SoC, ILA and ILA-SD, Vitis and ILA, UART, ZYQ, ILA only till 1.27, so we need 8 bit, 7 down to 0, Polymer address, send data is not declared, byte counter is not declared. Okay, send data, 23 and byte address, we need till 8, 4 bit, and should be initialized, I I guess it is initialized here anyway so it is not by the classified code address okay so I'm just leaving mistake column ADDR okay now all letters have vanished so we have 23 state that means I need five bits for states and next state it is already 5 bits, so it is perfectly fine. Yeah, so we have almost finished the code for controller.

Now the thing that is remaining is the actual module which is going to give me the data which has to be sent over the SBI. Okay? So that module I am writing as my topmost module and that module will basically instantiate my OLED controller inside that. Okay, so that's what my plan. So I'm taking a new file and calling it top.v. So my plan is to instantiate my OILT controller inside the top module and generate these signals also. OK, so I'm copying this top and instantiating it here. Let's call it OC, clock reset. OK, clock and reset they are coming from external world.

So I can correct them directly. And all these OLED signals, they are also coming from external world. So I directly connect them to the external pins. These signals are generated within this top module, so we'll see how to generate them. So other signals actually I can directly copy and paste from here. And there should be all wire type this time because they are connected to the output ports of a module. Fine. Okay, now first thing I- I'm going to declare the string that I want to display on the OLED controller. So, I am just declaring local param.

My string, let's display Hello World. Now if you write like this in Vilog, what is going to happen is, okay, so he will make a small memory inside the FPGA and that memory will be filled with ASCII code corresponding to each of this character here. Okay, so again, this is not like our software. This information is not stored in RAM or something. So using LUTs and flip-flops he will create a memory and inside that memory he will automatically store the ASCII code corresponding to each character because you wrote it like a string.

OK, now what we need to do? We need to take one character from the string at a time and give it to the OLED controller. At that time we will take one character form here, we will give it to send data and we'll make send valid high and we will wait for send done so we will keep on doing it until we send this entire string. So again we are going to write a state machine because I want to send one character data, one after the other. So again, a state machine we need. So always search for such clock, in the free search, begin end. So let me call it the state as the idle state and begin end. We are in idle state first, in case... So we are going to send data, so first thing I need to send is this H first, okay? I will start from H then E then L

so that it displays in that order. So where this character should be sent it should be sent to this one, send data. So I'm again declaring the send data and remember this was 7 bit wide So here there is a small catch. Here I wrote it 7 because as per the original ASCII specification, they are 7-bit but currently if you declare a string like this each character here internally he's going to store using 8-bit because all the modern system characters are 8-bit. OK, so let me declare it 8-bit and I am connecting it to a port which is only 7-bit.

But that is not problematic, he will connect only the lower 7 bits coming from here to the 7 bits here. So the uppermost bit will not be connected, it will be ignored but that will work perfectly 5, because the ASCII code for every character here is using 7 bits, 7 values and the 8th bit will be always 0. So this makes sense, this is perfectly fine. So I'll say like again send data, it's okay similar to our character ROM same issue here, I have a string, I need to So, you need to take one character at a time. That means you need some kind of loop control variable to do it.

Okay? So same syntax. So we'll say my string of... We will use a variable called byte counter. Byte counter times 8 minus 1 minus colon 8. So by counter we will initialize it with whatever is the size of the string. So the string is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. So let me declare it directly. Local pattern, string line 11. And I'll just use that here. Or you can directly write 11 here. So, let's unclip this. Or using wires directly connected to VCC and crop or whatever the implementation tool proof is. But syntactically this is how you should write. Send data my string byte counter which is 11 first times 8 minus 1 minus 8.

So basically take the upper 8 bits and we'll make send data valid is 1,2,3,1 So this one we will connect here, send data is here so this is also regtype, regsend data valid We will initialize to 0 here, okay byte counter we need to declare. So depending upon the size of the string how much will be the size of byte counter will change. Currently it is 11, okay so you need only 4 bit but later if I put a big string I will have I have to keep on changing the size. So one way, easiest way is to declare it as integer type byte counter Now integer is usually 32-bit, you know, but when you implement your design Vivado will automatically find out what is the largest value going to this variable so he'll not always use 32 bit if we are using sizes

If you have less than 32, say you are using 10 bits, he will use only 4 bits for byte-counter. Remaining bits will be optimized automatically so you don't have to worry about it. You can still declare it as integer type. But if the size is more than the size of the integer which is 2 to the power of 31 minus 1, Here I'll give you a warning, like the size is more than the size of integer. Then you have to declare the appropriate size here. But we, I don't think we will ever have a case where the string size is more then the size of what an integer gets to.

So this is perfectly fine for the time being. Okay, send data valid. I made one. Then I am going to the next state, let me call it the send state. And in send state basically I'm waiting for the OLED controller to say he has finished sending. So this send is done, declare it in wire type. He's waiting for this signal to go high. OK, and when that signal goes high we will make this signal low. This is the handshaking I was discussing and this is the precise reason we put this condition here. OK so he's making send down high He will see it only on next clock and only on next lock he will make this signal, NoC, OK? So if you don't have this condition, our OLED controller will see send data valid is still high.

So he will send the same character once again. So that's why to prevent that we added this condition. OK, so this signal we made 0. This byte counter we will decrement it by 1. Similar logic here also and again same logic if byte counter is not equal to 1 that means we have inside the entire string, I will go back to idle state else if byte counter is 1 okay again you have I have to think why it is not zero, okay SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, ILA, ILA. I have finished sending the entire string, so I come to done state and I will remain in done state forever because I have completed everything. Now you have to declare things, so local program IDLE is T10, D1 DONE is 3 state that means we need 2 bits so let's say VH1 down to 0 state

ok we need a bracket here now the only thing that is missing for the protocol is the completion of Handshaking, so remember we make this signal high to indicate I want to send a valid data and the other module will make this signal High to indicate he has finished sending. Okay now if you are coming back to turn state that is fine but when we are going back to idle state okay we need to wait until the signal becomes slow then only the protocol is completed so you make this high, when the other module sees this signal is high he sends data once he finish sending data he will make this signal high. When you see this signal high you will make this signal low and when the other modules he sees this signal low he is supposed to make send done loop. OK, so you should send the next character only after this signal becomes loops. So this completes our coding. Now you need to synthesize your design. After synthesizing, you need to do pin assignment for all these signals, clock reset and all OLED, OLED, OILER interface signals. You can find the pin locations from the Z user manual. I have already done it. This is how it should look like once you have done it. And after that you can generate bitstream. Okay? Once bitstream is generated, I have previously generated bitstream, you can program the device and once you program this is how you see hello world.

You may notice like some more pixels are white it's because the GD RAM inside OLED it will have some random values the locations which are not written by you it might be having some OK, so that's if you wish. Now the only drawback or one of the major drawbacks here is if you want to display another string, you need to insert that string here, you need to specify the size here then you have to go through the entire process of synthesis and implementation and bitstream generation. So you will see like this is not really flexible, pure hardware implementation as I mentioned before is not very flexible each time You want to do any modification, you have to go through all these steps.

So one thing that we can do is we can convert this OLED controller into an IP format and we may interface this IP with the ARM processor through the AXI interface then I can use software to So, I will be able to send the required string to the OLED controller. So in that way through hardware software core design, I might be able to have a better design. I might be having more flexibility compared to pure hardware implementation. So in the next video we will be converting what our OLED controller we have written in Vilog into IP format and we'll be interfacing it with the processor core. Thank you.
