Hello, welcome back. In our previous tutorial we have used either Vivado for implementing some custom circuits on the PL part of Zynq or we use the SDK to implement some software on the PS part of ZYNC. So in this project we are going to use both the processor part as well as the PL part and we will see how these two parts can communicate with each other. So, we are attempting a very simple design. So what we are trying to do is we will have a circuit in the PL part which will control the LED and the processor will be writing to this So this is the custom hardware and based on what value the processor writes to this circuit, the corresponding LEDs will turn on.

Okay so this is like the Hello World program for hardware software code design you can think like that. So in order to do this we'll be using the IP tool show of Vivado till this point we haven't used any IP, we were writing all our code in VITLOG directly. But in this project we will be using IPs and you'll see how they look like. So I'm starting as a new project again. Let me call it Hardware Software Hello World or something. So in order to use the IP flow, you should go to this option, Create Block Design under IP integrator.

Okay so you just go and click there and you are basically going to draw a block design actually. So we need to give some name to the design. So let's call it something like LED control or something. You can give what a name you like and you will get this screen which will be used for integrating the IPs. So as we discussed before, IPs are intellectual properties. So these are basically they look like blocks here, some pictorial representation. But actually there are VITLO codes associated with each of this IP. OK, so you can design a circuit simply by dragging and connecting IPs together.

And when you implement your circuit or implement your design, Vivado will fetch the corresponding VLU code or VHDL code for each of these IPs and he will actually implement it. Okay? That's what is going to happen. Now if you want to use the PS in your design, in your IP-based flow, The first IP that you should add is the ZYNC PS. So you click on this button, add IP here or on this button and it will list a lot of IPs. Okay? So all these IPs come with Vivado by default. In addition to these IPs, you can buy IPs from third parties or you can develop your own IPs also.

OK, so see this IP is for controlling Ethernet. We have very simple IPs like accumulator for other subtractor, lot of IPs are there. So one IP that you will always use if you want to use the PS is ZYNC processing system. So just type ZYNC here he will list this one ZYNC Processing System. OK, so as I mentioned before you will see all the IPs has some blocks here. Now this is the PS part of Zynq and if you remember PS it has four AXI interfaces to the PL part. We call So we call it GP ports as well as it has high performance XE interface to the PL part which we call as the HP port.

Now when you add here by default, you will see something called MXG-GP0 here. Okay? So this is the XEGP port one of them. If you want to have more than one GP or if you want to make any change to that. So, you can see the processing system. You double click it and you can see that enter architecture of our PS and you can selectively enable or disable different parts of it. For example, if I go here 32 bit GPXE Masterport, if I double click here, you will see like MXG and the next one is MXG-GP0, MXG-Gp1, MXGGP1, MXC-GP1, AXI-GPP4, XSCT, General Purpose ports which will be used for connecting with the peripherals that you will implement in the PL part of the sync chip.

Okay, so let me go back and make it only GP0 because for this project we need only one AXI interface. Now once you add this you'll automatically see this option here on block automation. You click this and click OK. So what is going to happen is the DDR interface, this one as well as so called FixIO. So these interfaces include UART, SPI, I2C, all these interfaces that you are seeing here on the left, SPI,I2C, CAN, UART. All these interfaces will be automatically constrained. The pin constraint for all these interfaces is automatically done by Vivado because he knows you are using ZedBoard and where the DDR is connected or where the USB is connected, etc.

Okay so only if you choose ZedBoard at the beginning he will be able to automatically do it for you. Fine! Now next one we are going to control our LEDs. The IP which can be used for that purpose is called GPIOIP, so I can click Add IP and choose AXI GPIO. So GPIO stands for General Purpose Input Output. So if you want to control some LED, you want to read from some switches for all those purposes this is the best IP core Now, one thing you may want to do is you want to know how to use this IP and other details about the IP. So you may want see the documentation for this IP, the user guide. So actually you can right click and there's an option here IP documentation and you can choose view product

guide, and Vivado will open the user manual for you. And there you can go ahead and read all the readings for this IP. So that's how we usually learn about the IP. Now once you add this IP here, you need to connect the PS with this IP. Okay so PS is a hard IP code, this is a fixed IP inside This IP, XC GPIO is a soft IP and this will be implemented in the PL part of the Zynq chip. And how do you connect these two things together? You connect them using the XC interface. So if you see here there is an XC interface and there's a prefix M which stands for master and here there is an XI interface with prefix S which stands for slave.

Ok, so Zynq is the master, he's the one who initiates all the read and write operations and XIGPIO, he says slave, ok? So he just responds to whatever read and write operation are initiated by the master. Now you need to connect them together, ok? Now one easiest way to connect them So what you can do together is you will automatically have this option here, Run Connection Automation, You click it and you choose all the interface. Before that we need to do a customization for this GPIO so you double-click it. Any IP if you want to know customization you just double-click and this IP customization will come and there you can choose some options.

So actually this GPIO IP, it has two interfaces. It can control actually two things. It can control LEDs, it can control switches or it can control LED as well as switches. Now by default he will show only one GPIO here, but if you come here IP configuration and click on this option enable dual channel he will show both the GPIO and GPIO2. Okay so these are the two GPIO now my plan is only to control the LED so I'm just disabling the second channel. Now here again under GPIO where this IP should be connected in the external world okay now if your plan is to control the LED you can click this option and choose LEDs 8 bit now what is going to happen is again Vivado he knows you are going to use ZBoard

Z-Board, and this will be implemented in ZedBoard. And he automatically knows the pin constraints for the LEDs on ZedBoard. So if you choose LEDs 8 bit here, you don't have to do pin constraints for LED in this case. Similarly, GPIO2, if you choose switches 8 bit, okay, GPIO2 comes, and he'll automatically do the pin constraint for slide switches. Vitis, again disable it. Okay now let's click on connection automation and you choose all automation and click OK and you'll see lot of things actually happens okay. Now you can click on this button here regenerate layout so that he will nicely arrange everything so let's see what actually happened. So we have the Zinc processing system here, and this is the AXI Masterboard. From there he took a

connection and connected to another IP called AXI Interconnect, and from AXI interconnect he actually connected to the GPIO, and output of GPIO is connected and do some pin. Okay, so this symbol indicates these pins actually, this arrow kind of thing. They are connected outside the chip that is the meaning. Now you will also another interesting thing is in all our previous designs we were taking the clock signal from Y9 pin off the and Zilinx, FCLK clock 0 and this is the output from that and you will see that signal is actually connected to the clock signal of the GPA. Okay so that again Vivado automatically does it for you, you don't have to do any clock constraint here because the clock is not coming from external pin

and you also don't have specify what is the clock frequency because if I again double click and look at the clock here under Clock Configuration you will see PL Fabric Clock and this option is checked FCLK Clock 0 and it is going to run at 100 megahertz. Now if you want to increase the frequency for better performance, you can just go ahead and change this value to 150 or 200, up to 250. Okay? Now the processor actually can give 4 independent clocks also if you design request that And these four clocks can be running at four different frequencies But for our current design only one clock is enough so we keep it at 100 MHz So again you don't have to specify any clock frequency constraint because he The Automated

point of view. So next to this diagram tab you will see something called this address editor and if you go there, you'll see XGPI-OS0 which is the So, so this is the output of the IP core. So what this means is whenever the processor reads or writes in this address range, that read and write operation will happen from this GPIO. So if you have many peripherals in your system, each of them will have a unique address range. And any read and write from a particular address range will happen from that particular peripheral.

So from processor point of view everything looks like a memory but physically there need not be memory. This he feels like it's the memory but here it's not a memory, here it is a GPIO IP core which is not a memory. But he feels like he's reading and writing from a memory, but effectively he's reading and writing from this IP core. And that is where this XA interconnect also comes into picture. So you'll see like this GP0 is connected to this interconnect. Now what the interconnect does is maybe to show this I will add one more IP core. Okay, run connection automation.

I have added one more GPIO, just as a dummy purpose just to show you what this interconnect actually does. Now if you see the interconnect it is actually connected to the processor MXEGP0 and it is connected to the DS2 IP And now if I come to the address editor I will see two address ranges, okay? This is for first GPIO, this is for second GPIO and there is no overlap between them Now if I read or write from this address range, it should go to GPIO. If I read or right from this address from the processor, It should go to the second GPIO.

Now what this interconnector does is whenever the processor reads or writes, Okay, he checks the address within which he's reading and writing And based on whether that address range belongs to this GPIO or whether that address range belongs to this GPIO IP, he will send the transaction to the appropriate IP. So you can think like this is more or less like a de-multiplexer. He gets some transactions from the processor. He checks the address of the transaction based on the address he routes the transaction to appropriate flip-flop.

That is what the interconnect does. OK, so let me delete it again and OK. I don't want this second interface so I can just double click and say number of masked interfaces back to 1. OK, so for our, let's delete this one also. For our current project, this much is enough. One thing you need to do is once you create block design save it and you click on this button, Validate Design, and Vivado will check your block design. If there is anything wrong he will tell you so and so things are wrong. So you need to correct those errors.

Usual errors are the clock signals you forget to connect or the reset signals you forget to connect. Okay, so these warnings are something for DDR interface from PS and those warnings are fine, you can just ignore them. Okay now once you have done this much, you should come back to the sources tab here and here you will see LEDControl.BD okay that is actually the block beside this one. Now you need to implement it. Now to implement first of all you need to right click and say create HDL wrapper and Vivado will create a VIDLOG file from this block design.

Ok, so he creates this VIDLog file and he automatically adds all the input output. For example these LEDs, this DDR, fixed IOU. All the signals are So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynx, Zync, So this module is responsible for generating a power-on reset signal to the processor as well as all your peripherals. He will fetch the Vidlog for XA interconnect, he will fetch the Vidlog for XAGPIO and he will just implement all these peripherals on the PL part. This one there is no special VIDlog code because this is a fixed IP core and he will connect them all together.

OK, so once you have done this much, you can just go ahead and click generate bitstream. You don't have to do constrain in this particular case because as I said before when I add a GPIO there itself I told I want this GPIO to control my LEDs. So he automatically knows like what is the and the constraint for LED. Similarly, clock is coming from PS not from Y9 pin. Okay? Because of that you don't have to specify the pin for clock and he also knows the clock frequency is 100 MHz so you don't need to give frequency constraint also. Now wait until he generates bitstream. Okay, bitstream generation is completed so usually we just go ahead and program the FPGA that's what we used to do last time but here what I'll do is I'll

go to file and choose the option export and choose export hardware and while doing that just check this option include bitstream. So what is going to happen The address information of every peripheral in your block design will be saved in a text file and that information will be exported which can be used by the software development kit SDK. So first go and choose Export Hardware, and after that choose Launch SDK, Launch SDK. And wait until he completes the initialization. And you will see he's showing like importing hardwares specification okay so this screen you haven't seen before this is something new Okay so previously we are not seeing this screen because you were doing independent software

development, and at that time there were no custom hardware in the PL part. Okay? In this case that is not the case you want to interface a custom hardware with the processor so first you implement the hardware then you export that information to software and here you can see XAGPI-U0 and you will see this address here base address which is exactly the base So this information is what got exported to SDK and that information is coming through this file actually, System.HDF, Hardware Definition File and this is the file which got exported when you chose Export Hardware.

So once this comes you will go and again choose new application project and give some project name Let's call it LED control. And one thing you will notice here, before we were always choosing Z hardware platform predefined and this option you will choose when you don't have any peripheral in the PL part. If you have any peripheral in the PL Part, you need to use that detail When you write your software, again by default he will give you this option here once you export your hardware to SDK and choose launches ticket. So again basically this has the information airport all the peripherals that you are going to implement in the PL part so don't change this thing and click next and let's choose empty application

and you can choose Finish. Okay, so let's go to the source and say New, source file, and choose LED-CTRL.C and choose SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, UART, ILA. Zilinx, Zilinx and Zilinx functions. Now Zil outcomes in different varieties. There are Zilout8, Zilout16, ZilOut32, depending upon whether you want to write 8-bit data, 16-bit data or 32-bit data. No we have only 8-bit LED, only 8 bits. So the best one is to choose Zilout 8. and the function takes two parameters one is the address where you want to write and one is the data whichever you want to right so the address you know is this one and data we can write what are your data you want now if you wish you can

directly write the address like this followed by some data let's write a file Now this is okay but it's not a good coding practice so we usually don't hard code the address here. Instead of that, we will use some parameter. So what you'll do is you include a special header file called Xparameters.h X-parameters.h, this header file is again automatically created when you export your hardware from Vivado to SDK. Now if you want to see the content of this file or any file in SDK, you click it and press F3 on your keyboard and this is that file X-parameter.h and there you will So you will see it lists the address of all the peripherals. Not all these peripherals are in the PL part, a lot of them are in the PS part also

Because from processor point of view everything is like a memory map device. So here, 200000 which is exactly this one. Now, instead of hard coding it we will use that parameter declaration. Okay? Hash different. So we'll use this parameter instead of directly hard coding it because the advantage is later if you change the address or somehow you change your hardware design and the base address of the peripheral changed that means you have to come back and change that address everywhere but if you are So, we are directly using the parameter definition, ok?

When you change the hardware there and when you export this value will automatically get updated so that you don't have to change anything in your software. Ok? So, this is the better idea always use the parameter instead of directly hard coding the address value. Ok, so int main and so I'll try to do this one. Now this function, Xilout 8 or Xilout 1632 they are all declared inside another header file called Xilio.h, okay, Xilinx input output header file that's where they are declared so you need to add that one also here.

Okay, so that's it, our software development is done now we are ready to run. So the first step is to program the PL part. You need to program the P L with the pitch stream that you can either do from the Vivado or you can do that also from SDK provided when you export, you check the option include pitch stream which we did. If that option is checked if you come and click this option program, FPGA, that pitch It will be visible here, otherwise it will be empty. You can either browse and find it out or you can come to Vivado and program from there.

Anyway first step is to program the PL part. Okay so we are programming the FPGA. Make sure the blue LED is on after that same as we used to do for running the SDK. FPGA is programmed, now you need to run the software actually. So that step is exactly same as what you used to do before go to run and choose run configuration double click on this one and choose standalone, local and here this option is checked actually program FPGA that means each time you click run he will Program the FPGA, maybe that's not necessary. We need to program FPGA only once and just re-run the software each time whenever I click Run. So maybe we'll uncheck it and go to Application and choose this option which processor code and make sure the ELF file is

listed there and choose Run and wait until this becomes 100%. P software, you see, or rather harder software code is signed. If you are doing a pure harder design each time you want to change the LED value maybe you have to change it in the way it look code and go through the enter implementation again but since the value shown by LED is controlled by the software now you have more flexibility you can decide what value should come on the LED by changing the values here. So that's it. So this is our first program which uses both hardware as well as software. See you in the next tutorial.
