Hello and welcome back. In our previous video, we have seen how to use the IP integrated available in Vivado to integrate different IP cores and build and enter system. So in this video what I'm trying to show you is how to create your own IP core. Ok? So how to start from with log and finally get the block description or block level representation of your IP. That's what I'm trying to cover in this video. So we'll start with a very simple IP actually, basically an IP to control the switches and LED similar to the GPIO that you have used.

But later we will have more complex IP like once we complete our OLED controller code We will convert it into IP format so that you can directly control the OLED from the processor through software. Now, when you design an IP, one of the first questions is what should be the interface of the IP? I'm not talking specific to Vivado but in system-on-chip design, In general whenever you design an ip, you need to decide how your IP will be integrated with the rest of your system. Now our aim is to build something which will be interface with PS part of Zynq and the only interface available to PS is XS4 interface. So we'll be designing our IP which has an XS4 Interface. Now another question will be whether your IP should be a master or a slave.

So in most of the time your IP will be a slave that means all the XS transactions read and write operations will be initiated by the processor, and your IP will be just following what our transaction is coming from the processor. But in certain cases, your IP has to be a master. This is specifically true if your IP has access to the external DDR connected to Zynq chip through the HP port of PN. In that case, your IP have to be a monster. So that we will see later, the IP that we are going to design today is a simple GPIO-IP.

So that will be a slave IP. So these are two important factors. Another important thing again in last lab you have seen actually how an IP works what is inside an IP. Basically you will have a core logic of the IP and there'll be number of registers actually So the processor is actually reading and writing from these registers and based on the register values some other things may be happening. Okay, so the actual interface to the processor is through the registers inside the IP. The HOMI register should be an inside an IP depends upon the functionality of the IP.

So again at design stage we will decide how my register should be there, what each register is supposed to do and what should be the address for each register so on and so forth. Okay? So I hope it will be clearer once we complete our current project. So as I mentioned before we are going to design an IP for controlling LEDs and switches. So my basic plan is I will have a register inside the IP and this register, I will connect to the pins of the IP, external interface of the IP which should be subsequently connected to the LEDs on the board.

So if the processor wants to control the LED it just has to write to this register. So basically I need one register to interface with the LED. Now another register might be interfaced with the switches, so if the processor wants to read the switch position, whether how many are on or off, it just has to read from this second register. So basically I need only two registers, one set of registers connected to LED and the other set of other register for the set of other registered connector to the slide switches. So that's my whole requirement. So let's see how do you start. So I am starting it as a new project again, and I'm calling my project, let's say, IP-generator project or something.

I'm keeping it as a subdirectory and So, once you get this window, you should go to Tools and choose Create Unpackaged New IP. And you will get this wizard. And here you have multiple choices. And since we are going to create an AXI slave IP, you should choose this option, Create AXI4-Petifural, Create New AXI4‐Petiforal. Okay? Choose that option next. IP2-Control, IP2-Controller, IP2 Control, IP2, IP3-Control, ILA, ILA-ILA, IP2 control, IP2 control, IP3 control, IP4 control, IP5 control, IP6 control, IP7 control, IP8 control, IP9 description here, ip2-control-leds and switches. Now here this is a very important setting so Vivado is basically asking where the files generated for this IP should be stored.

Okay? So that you should be really careful. So I would suggest you create a separate folder and inside that folder you create subfolders where you will store your files associated with individual IP. So what I'm doing is in D drive and I have created a new folder called IPRAPO inside that let me create a new folder and we call it GPIO control So all my IPs will be stored in this IP wrapper folder and I will put them in different stuff folder as I create them Now next, here basically he's asking what should be the name of the XSlave interface to your IP so when you add your IP to your GUI, the block design it will look like this So he's asking what this interface should be called, it doesn't matter what you call it.

So keep it S0-AXI. Interface type, this you should read the AXI documentation. There are actually three kinds of AXI available, LiteFool and Stream. So for medium performance, AXI Lite interface is good enough if you want high performance communication will have to go with AXI Fool because it supports something called VIRSTRANSER, so I'm doing a simple IP, so I am keeping light and this is where you choose the mode whether your IP should be a master or slave. You have slave data width it is 32 fixed and how many registers should be there inside your IP? So the minimum number supported here is 4. Now you will get the original source code for this IP there you can change the number of registers and all

but in the GUI although I need only two, I cannot set two so we have to go with four. So keep it four. Next and this step is important again when you come to this last page there is an option called Edit IP okay? So basically what happens is Vivado will open a new project where you'll be able to see the source code for the IP that you are generating and you will be able to edit that source code. OK, and save it if you want to make any changes to your IP. So choose this option, Edit IP, and click Finish. Now, if you go to the folder where I specified to create the IP, this one, you'll see like a lot of files have been created and you will see a project called editGpioControl.XPR, okay?

So this project is automatically created and Vivado opens that project also, this is that project, EditGPIOControl where you will be able to edit the VITLOG source code and other settings. Then you'll have this folder, GPIOControl 1.0. Inside that again you will see a bunch of folders and a file called component.xml so as far as an IP is concerned the most important file is this one, component.xml, this is a XML file, okay. Now, this file stores all the information about your IP in a text format. For example, it has information about what is the interface type, what are the different signals belonging to this interface, where your source codes are stored. All these information are stored in

this XML file. So as far as Zilinx is concerned when they say the IP file, in most cases, Vivado, VIVADU, VIVA, ILA, ILA- VIVADA, ILE, ILA. So, VIVADA is a very simple tool for the software to use in the software. So, VIFADA is a software that allows you to use the software to run your software. So, VIVEADO is a software called VIVADOO, and it's a software called VIVADOA, and it's an software called VIVEADOO. So, VIBADA is a hardware called VIVADA, and it's also called VIVA. files automatically created. This has the VIDLO code for your IP. There is another folder called Driver which has some C sample code for testing your IP using SDK. It also has a

ED folder, which has information about the block design how to integrate your IP when you are It also has a folder called XKUI, which has the information about how your IP should be shown like a block. When you go to the block design, the graphical information about your IP. So this folder is very important. This is the most important folder. All others are temporary folders actually. You can delete them if you wish to but keep them there. Now as I mentioned before, from that original project once you choose Edit IP, Vivado automatically creates this new project and he opens it. And this is how it will look like when you open first time.

Now here in the window you can see a lot of information about your IP, for example the company which is producing this IP. Now by default it will be Xilinx if you have your own VIPin company, you can give your company name and the name of your IP, the version description, all the information. It also has information about which FPGA this IP is targeting. Okay, so this should be some domain name it seems. Okay, so let's call it vipinc.com or something. So it is basically saying this IP is compatible with ZYNC, okay?

So the IP compatibility is with reference to the chip not with reference to port. So this IP can be used with any ZYNC chip, any ZYNCHIP basically. If you want to make it compatible with other families of chip, okay? You can do it. I can add here and add other FPGAs. These are all different FPGAs from Xilinx. So what happens is later when you or other people try to use your IP in a particular project, Vivado will always check whether this IP is compatible with this particular chip and if not he won't let you add that to the project.

Under file group you'll see all the information which all files are part of this IP. This is the VIDlog source code for your IP. These are the simulation source, which is the Vilox source, the example C code, here automatically added, UILayo, this is the graphical information, block diagram. So basically all these files are coming from this folder, okay? So they're automatically listed. Customization parameter, we'll come to that later. Ports and interfaces, the port to your IP is XE interface. This is an AXI slave interface and addressing and memory again Not video 11 here when you add it to the block design You will see like VISA address and high address for your IP automatically coming and GUI

How your IP will look? It will look like this in the block design Now from where this screen is coming? This screen is actually coming from this component.xml file So, Vivado reads the information from this XML file and extracts the information and shows it to you. That's it. Now let's look at the visual code. Okay, so basically, Vivado he will generate two files for you one file will be called the name of the IP that you gave.v and it will instantiate another module called name of your IP underscore name of the XC interface in this case SW0, AXI instance. Now what these files are basically doing is it automatically implements the logic for interfacing your IP with AXI4 interface so if any AXI,

so this is an AXI slave interface actually you can see many signals out there the nice thing is you don't have to remember the AXI protocol. So any read or write operation coming through the XSCT interface will go through this interface and the code for following that protocol is already provided by Zynx. Now if you come to this file inside this top file, you'll see some parameters for example, S-AXI address with these four, S-ACSI data with this 32 so it's going to use 32 bit data. The address it is going to use is lower 4 bit now you will see why it is so it is because the number of registers that you ask to instantiate within In this IP is 4, that's why this number became 4 there.

Now let's see here, if you come to this line 107, you can see they have already declared four registers here, slave, register, slave, 1, slave, 2, slave, 3, right? And their width each of them is 32 bit wide. Now if you come little bit further, you will find the code where data is written into this register. So it looks a bit complicated actually because they are using lot of for loops and not but actual code is very simple actually. Now basically what is written here is if slave or edge write enable is high so this signal will become high whenever the processor wants to write to an AXI slave IP and the address of that IP is matching.

So you can see on the top how this signal is generated, there is no standard AXI signal but these are AXI signals actually coming from the AXI interface so if write-valid, write address ready, again write data valid and write data ready. If all these conditions are true, this signal will become high. You'll have to read the AXI4 protocol specification to understand what each signals are but basically they all become high whenever the processor is writing. So if the signal is high, they are checking the address coming from the processor.

Okay? So if the address coming form the processor after subtracting the base address from that address and dividing it by 4, that is this guy. If that is 0, whatever data is coming from the process gets stored in slave-rage 0. If it is 1, whatever coming from processor is in slave-rage1, slave-rage2, slave-range3. Otherwise, if there is no write operation every register keeps its previous value. Okay? So basically this is the part where data coming from the processor gets to into an internal register. same way if you come little bit down This is the part where the register data is going to the processor.

So you will see the code is quite similar here it is checking the read address from the processor and if the read address minus base address divided by 4, you are dividing it by 4 because each register is 4 bytes actually so the addresses increases by 4 from processor point So this is the logic for doing that. Anyway, so if the processor is reading from address 0, content of register 0 goes here, which subsequently goes to the processor. Same way, if reading from address 1, register 1 goes to the processer. Here, register 2 goes to the So this is the code which is provided by Xilinx. This is a basic template for reading and writing from registers through XI interface.

This is a basic template for reading and writing from registers through XE interface. Now depending upon your application, what you want to do using your IP, you will have to add something to this code or you have to modify code so I can convert it to the processor. So that's what my aim. So that additional information I will have to add. So how do we do it? So if I go to the, again, the first file here you will see the inputs and outputs from my IP. And you'll notice the only input output is the AXI interface even in the GUI also you can see this is how GUI look like The only interface to the IP is the AXI interface. Now what additional interface I need?

I need an additional interface to the LEDs, 8 wires. I need an addition interface to the switches, 8 wires so that I can interface this IP to LEDs and switches. So I'm going to add that information here. So what I'm doing is, OK, I use support add ports here. So there is a command here you can add actually wherever you want but better I add where all Xilinx has listed to add so I will say output 7 down to 0 and input 7 down to zero I am adding these two additional interface to my IP. This I did in the top file. Next what I should do, these LEDs should be connected to register 0 so that whenever processor writes something to register 0 that gets reflected using the LEDs. So this wires I have to somehow

Connector-Register 0, which is inside this module. Inside this module. OK? So basically I will add these ports here also. So LEDs, LEDs and switches. OK? So I added them here for instantiation. That means I should also add them here also. So same thing I will add here also, Add here also, output LEDs, input switches. Now what I'll do? I will just write okay somewhere here. You can add wherever you want. Assign LEDs equal to SlayerEdge 0, C. So now when our processor arrives to SlayerEdge 0 that will go here to these wires which is going as output from this module that will come here it will come here and will finally go as output okay so I'll leave this easier now switches are a little bit tricky So I have switches coming as input.

So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSct, SD card, SoC, VD The processor to write to register 1. I don't want processor to write register 1, I want to write the position of the switches to register 1, so what you should do? You need to modify this part of the code. Now remember the rule, you cannot have So you have more than same register in more than one or this block. So you cannot just write like this because the problem is, this condition is under this condition. If slave-rage-write is 1 and if address is 1 then switch equal to slave-rage work.

This doesn't make sense because this basically means if the processor is writing and if the address is matching, then the content of switch should go to slave register one. No, what I want is the switches should be always connected to slave register 1. So what I will do is I will take this slave register 1 from here and I will just put it under this always block outside this condition. I will put it outside this condition and I will remove this code which corresponds to writing data from processor to slaveRage1. I am putting it here. Okay, slaveRage0 is perfectly fine.

I want the processor to write to slaveRaj0 so that goes to the LED. Makes sense. But slaveRage SlaveRage1, I don't want the processor to write there. I want the data from the switches to be directly stored there. Now two and three we are not going to use it so let them be there and this code it is fine. This basically means SlaveRage 1 retains the previous value if you If you wish, you can delete this also. Now things look perfectly fine. This code is correct. But usually what we'll do is we write this entire thing as a separate always block so that the code is more readable actually.

So I'm taking it from there and putting it here and also this reset condition copying and I'm cutting it here because you can order a slaveH1 inside to all width blocks, so I'm taking it from there and putting it here, beaconEnd, else beaconEnd. Okay now this looks much better. That's it! So we have done. We have edited the IP source code. That is the thing, if you make any modification to the source code, okay? You need to update things in this component.xml file so you need to double click here. When you come here you will see those green tick marks have gone here and it's showing some picture of the file that means you have modified something in the IP source code.

So you go here and click Merge Changes from File group, and everywhere actually. Okay? And you'll see now they are back to green. Now the interesting thing is if you come to GUI here, now you will see it is showing LEDs and switches here. Now Xilinx they follow a certain style. The outputs will be always listed on the right and inputs will be left. And there is this option check here. Delete project after package. Okay? By default, this is checked. That means once you click repackage IP, he will save all your changes and this project will close. Edit GPIO control.xpere project will close and that project will be deleted also. Now the problem with that is later if you want to again update your IP,

If you want to change any modification, it will be very difficult because you don't have this Vivado project to do it. You'll have to create a new project and add all the source code there. It could be a big headache. So make sure this is unchecked so that when this project is closed, this project is not deleted and if you want to make any modifications later, you can always come back and double Open and make all the modifications. OK, so if it is uncheck and OK, and click Repackage ID. He will say like finish packaging.

He has updated all the information to this file, component.xml. Now you can close the project. OK. OK, so this is our original project from where we started. I created an IP from here, so he created an IP, he opened a new Vivado project for editing that IP, I used that project to edit my IP, then I repackaged it, I saved it, I save the IP and that's it. And all that information is actually sitting inside this fold, and component.xml is sitting inside this folder. Now let's try to use that IP in a block design. So I am using the same project, IP generator, project.XPR OK, I create a block design and let's try to add our new IP to this project.

First let me add the processing system OK we can type ZYNC processing system, Automation, Block Automation and IP, remember our IP name was I think GPIO control, remember GPIO control so that is automatically listed here so just double click it and you can see our IP here Okay, now let's try to use our IP in a block design. Okay? So okay, now let us try to use our IP in the block design. So we already have this project open from where we actually started our initial IP generation under Tools, Create and Package new IP. But to make things So, as a clear, let me create a new project actually, and let me call it TestMyGPIO, something.

I'm creating a completely new project, and let's be close that initial project. Ok, so in future also whenever I want to create a new IP, I will go and start from this IP generator project and choose create a new ip. Then I get a new project, I will create the IP there close. Ok, so this project I am going to use just as a base Vivado project to start a new IP. That's it, nothing else. OK, so here let's come to create block design like we did in last lab choosing processing system, block automation, OK and let me try to add our new IP which is GPIO control right, GPIO control now you'll see like that IP is not listed We have only XGIPIO which is the Xilinx GPIO IP

So this is the thing, by default your IP will not be listed in the IP category. You need to tell Vivado which location he should search for user-defined IP or IPs created by you. So what you should do is you should go to settings and there is an option here IP, IP Repo, IP Repos, IP Repro, IP Repop, IP Rep Now the good thing is he will keep on searching in subdirectory after subdirectory. So it is enough to show him this folder, IP-RAPO and he'll go inside that and keep on searching. So that's why I created a folder called IP-RapO and I'm going to keep all my IPs as subfolders here so that I just add this folder and Vivado will find out all the IPs within this folder.

So I'm going there and choosing this one IP-RAPO, select and you can see like here actually found my IP, GPIO control version 1. OK, OK. Now if I click here and search for GPIO, my IP is also listed. So double click it, it comes to the blog design, you can see looks exactly like the GUI version Y1V, so when we created the IP you can click Run Connection Automation and it gets connected to the processor. Okay? So this one is connected to the interconnect which is actually connected to the processor. This is the clock, this is the reset. The only thing which are not connected are these two, the LEDs and switches. Okay? So unlike Vivado's GPIO

So basically your controller does not automatically get connected to LED and switches that you have to do manually. So what you should do is, you need to click on this interface, right-click and say make external. So basically you are saying this interface is connected to some pins of the chip. They are connected to the outside world of the chip, okay? Same thing for both, make external, now this is connected to switches, this is connected That doesn't happen automatically in this case because he doesn't know ‐‐ only because we call them LEDs, doesn't mean they will be automatically connected to LED. Okay? So you need to manually do pin assignment after synthesis. You can go synthesis. Okay. If you go to address editor, you will see

The GPA control, the base address is automatically assigned. So when you write the software, if you want to write to LEDs, you just write to this base address. If you want to read from the switches, you need to read from the base address plus four because switches are connected to Reg1, and also in the code you saw like the address of register 1 is 1. It is internally divided by 4 all the addresses so from processor point of view that register address is still 4. So keep that in mind. So when you are reading you should read from base address plus 4 so you get the switch status and when you're writing you should write to the base address So that it goes to the LED. So the code will look exactly like the code that you already wrote for

controlling the Xilinx, XG-GPIO core, no difference. Now let it run here. In parallel I would like to show you one more thing. Now remember the Xilynx GPIO there was an option when you double click The IP, you can edit some parameters like what should be the width of the GPIO interface and such things. Right? So you can do same thing here also currently these are options coming and you can't edit any of them actually okay so that feature we will add why I'm doing it because this eight LEDs and 8-slide switches, they are specific to ZedBoard.

Suppose you want to use the same IP with another board, you should be able to do it. And suppose that board has only 5 LED, even on ZedBoard. Suppose you want this interface to the 5 push button instead of the 8 slide switches. So this should be 4 down to 0 instead of 7 down to 0. So there should be some option for customization. So that's also possible, so to do that again we have to edit our original IP, that's why as I said before it's important to have this project which was used for editing this IP. So I am going and opening that project again, this project okay, no don't close this project let it run.

So what we need to do is here we have hard coded 7 down to 0 LED and 7 down to zero switches. Instead of that you should parameterize them. So let me say parameter and let's say integer type parameter or you can just neglect it also. LED width, let's say 8 and another parameter switch width equal to let's say 8. Okay? And instead of 7 down to 0 here I will say LED width minus 1 and here switch width minus 4. Makes sense? It's the same thing you have to do here also in GPIO control. So let me put these two parameters here also. Here also. Okay, so where we have LEDs? LEDs equal to slave-rage zero. Actually the width of slave-rage is zero if you see is 32 actually.

Okay, so when you assign a 32 bit wide register to 8 bit LED it will always start from the LSPit, so the lower eight are going here. So it's perfectly fine. This width can go up to 32 actually. Fine! So we have changed the source code. One more thing is here we need to do the parameter mapping. So this LED width that I am specifying on the top module should be propagated to this module, the instantiated one. For that we need to do so called the port, like port mapping, we need to something called the parameter mapping which is similar. So you take the parameter in the sub-module which is LED width and you map it to this parameter on the top module.

OK, so it will look like.LEDWidth and.WITCHWidth, switchwidth, and set. So the syntax is, module name, parameter mapping, instance name, port mapping. OK, save it and open our IPXact now. File group, Customization parameters, there is some change thing here. If you click here and click Merge Changes from Customization parameter wizard, you will see our two parameters listed here. Hidden parameters, LED width and switch width. Now we don't want them to be hidden So double click it and choose Visible in customization GUI And you can give the default value 8, OK So let me switch with Visible, default value 8 OK And go to Review and Package and say Repackage That will prove somewhere else I guess OK I'm going to close it

Now I'm coming back to my old project So as I mentioned before, synthesis is over. So you should do the pin constrain for both LEDs and switches and implement and test on hardware that you can do. What I wanted to show was let me reopen the block design. When I reopen the block this one, you will see a warning here. IP catalog is out of date. So Vivado automatically found out something GPIU Control, GPIU control, GPIUControl, GPIEControl, GPIU In the bottom, he will show something called IP status and he is saying like GPIO control, that IP has changed and you need to upgrade it.

So I'm just clicking upgrade selected. Okay, things got upgraded. Now if you double click it, you'll see these two options here LED width, switch width and they are 8. Now if you want to change them to 5, we can change it to 5 and that gets reflected here. So it became 4 down to 0 instead of 7 down to 0. Right? This is how you can do this. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA- VIT, VIT, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA. and you can see this is exactly the source code that we were using. See? This is the source code which we actually saved.

And he modifies what our change we are doing in the GUI, in that source code. For example if we change the width here in the GUI that will get reflected in the VIDlogSource code there. So that's what he is basically doing. So that's why if you change any parameter here in the GUI, you have to re-synthesize and re-implement because you are effectively changing in the VIDlogS
