Hello all, welcome back. In the previous tutorial we have seen how to develop your own custom IP cores. So in this tutorial I'm going to talk about developing driver software for your custom IP cores, okay? So you might have heard the term drivers. When you install a new hardware in your computer usually you have to install a corresponding driver also. So if we look at the computer architecture and if I represent it as a layered architecture at the lowest level, we have the hardware sitting and the layer which is closest to hardware We call it the drivers and on top of drivers sits our operating system and on top of OS sits our application software. Again here the main idea is

obstruction that means your operating system it doesn't have to know about all the details about the hardware. Instead, your hardware comes with a special software called Driver and the driver will be knowing about all the intricacies of your hardware. So whenever the operating system has to communicate with your hardware, it actually communicates with the driver and the driver effectively communicates with the hardware. Okay? So the idea is again, again, to have some level of abstraction. Now, when we talk about our custom IP core, we have seen like these IP cores are implemented using registers inside the IP core.

Now what our driver does is it will give you or it will give the user who is going to use your IP core with the basic access to your IP core. So your driver should be providing Basic Read and Write Operations to your IP Core. Again, while we are doing it, we want to make the life of programmers easier. We don't want them to go and check the user manual each time like how to read from this IP which register should be checked, what are the registers, what their addresses are. So all this information we want to abstract away and give them a simple interface to your IP.

So basically all these IP drivers, they have at least three functions. One function will be basically to initialize the IP, another function for writing something to the IP and another one to read from IP. These are the three basic operations that driver will be providing. In addition to that depending upon the type of IP there would be other functionalities available like if you're using an IP for image processing, there could be a dedicated IAP, VITA, IAP, IAP, VRP, VRP IAP, ARP, VRT, VRP IAP, RAP, VRT So this software we usually distribute as part of your IP core.

So you will distribute your workload, the component.xml file and the C code which corresponds to the driver for your IP. Now if you check our IP core folder, this one, not this one, our IP core one. So it was inside IP core, GPU control, GPIO. You will see a folder called Drivers. Inside that source folder Xilinx, they already provide a template for the driver for this GPIO. So whenever you create a customer IP using Vivado, it will give a template for driver, the basic operations, basic read and write operation. But we want to improve it and that's what we are going to see today.

So in order to do it, usually you will make a custom IP and create a simple system using that custom IP which we have already done. So this is our custom IP, GPU controller, and we have already created a simple system using this IP. So next we will export this And we will launch SDK as before, what we were doing. Okay now we can go to file, new application project and let's call it test GPIO something standalone make sure the hardware platform is not Zed but this one which were you exported Next, and choose empty application. Finish.

Now there is a standard way of writing drivers. You usually have two files for your driver, one header file, which will have a model for your hardware and the declaration of all the functions and a.c source file, which will have definition for all your source file. So that's how we usually develop it. So first let me write that header file, so I'll go to source and choose new header file Let me call it GPIO-Control.h Ok, so this is how header file template looks like You will see a hashif and diff, and hashif and hashanddiff So this you should go and check, this is a technique used in C and C++ to avoid something called circular reference.

What it is? Please go ahead and check. So first thing that I'm going to write is a model for my hardware. So in your drivers when you write it in C, your hardware will be represented as a structure. So the idea of structure is similar to the idea of classes in C++. The only difference is in classes you can abstract both data and methods but when you're using structures, you can encapsulate, okay? You can have only multiple data inside it. You cannot have functions encapsulated inside a structure. But if you're using C++, you will represent your hardware as a class.

So you'll be encapsulating both the data as well as the methods associated with your hardware there. Now we are using C so we don't have classes here what we have is structures. So this is the syntax for structure, struct keyword name of the structure that we call a GPIO control itself and curly bracket, and close curly bracket. This is the syntax for structure. Now later the same way you generate objects from classes, you will have to create variables from this structure and while doing that you will have declare the data type as struct GPI control then followed by It becomes inconvenient to keep on typing struct GPIO control.

So if I use something called this typeduff struct GPIO control and before this semicolon again GPIO control, I can create my variable simply by calling GPIO control. Okay so typeduff again you can go ahead and check if you haven't seen it before in C or C++ So here I am going to represent my hardware. So basically you will write all the important information about your hardware inside this structure. Again that depends upon what kind of IP cores we have. Personally, we have a very simple IP core and almost every IP core will have one input.

and almost every IP core will have one important information which is its base address. So that I am going to declare here base address and its type is unsigned int, so you can either data type unsigned int base address, vosafer1 is U32 unsigned int 32 bit base address. Now this data type U32 is declared inside a header file called siltype, so let's include it, hash include siltypes.h and this one. Ok, so I don't know if there is any other important information for my IP core. If you prefer, you can store the... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ZSCT, ILA, UART, ILA.

So one important function as I mentioned before is to initialize your IP code. So let me call it init GPIO, what this function does is it initializes. So usually in initialization what happens is the base address of your IP will be initialized. OK, your base address will be initialized with the actual base address of your IP. So this function usually takes two arguments. One will be a pointer to the structure which represents your IP core. So since it is a pointer we'll write like GPIO star or my GPIO or something.

So, GPIO star is representing this is a pointer to a GPIO type data. Another one will be the base address will be coming. Okay so I'll be writing it something like this. This is a pointer to the structure base address equal to base address. So in classes also you have the same operator. If you are using a pointer to an object, you will use this one. If you are using an object directly, you will be using a dot operator to access the data inside that. Okay, same concept here. Now this is a header file. So I'll keep only the declaration here and the function definition, I will move to a.c file that we can do later actually.

Now let me write another function, write GPIO. So this function will be used for writing something to my GPIO. Again he will take two arguments, the pointer to my GPIO and lets call it data to be returned to the GPIO. Now I am taking the data as 32 bit because all the registers So, if you want to write something to my GPIO IP, you have to write to base address plus 0. OK? So, you have write ZILOUT32, that is the function for writing anything to a peripheral. YGpio base address plus 0, so basically YGpios base address followed by write data.

Same way for reading, read GPIO it will be a pointer and it will return the data which is So we will say, I can say a return, till in 32. YGPIO base address will give you the base address and the data from where or the address from where you should read back is address 4, the second register. OK, so the register addresses they increment by 4 because each register is 32 bit. Remember part in your VLIO code you saw the addresses are incrementing by 1 because internally these addresses are divided by 4 automatically but again from processor point of view the addresses are incrementing before so you need to write like this. MyGPIO base address will return the and the base address plus four.

So if you do read from that, you will be getting the switch position if that register is connected to the switch. Now I'm going to move this definition to a.c file so I'll say new source file and GPIO control dot C remember the.h and.c file should have same name but different extensions and here you will include the header file, gpa-control.h and you will add the definition SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA. and Xil, there is a building mistake here, Xilin32 And another thing is those functions are defined in Xilio.h So I need to add that also here Ok so errors have gone away Only error is undefined reference to main We don't have a main in our project So we'll add a main function

OK, so here it is int. So let's type in 0. OK, so now let's write a main. The main will be basically used for testing whether our code is working or not. So I can say like test GPIO.C file. So this is where I'll write my main. So I'll do hash include GPIO control dot h int main. So the first step is to create a variable from this structure. So we will say GPIO control, my GPIO, okay? So GPIO control is the data type which is a structure from that we are creating a variable called my GPIO and the first step is to initialize it so we need to call this function in a GPIO and we need to pass two arguments there. First one is a pointer to the GPIO, so I will just write ampersand YGPIO.

Second one is the base address, so again base address is coming from Xpadometers.h header file, so we need to check that file and this is the base OK, so we did initialization. Now basically we can write the same code where your software reads from the slide switches and writes it back to the LEDs. It's an infinite loop, the same one when we did it lab. So we can write GPIO and first argument is the pointer to GPIO, our second argument is data read from the LEDs, oh sorry, the slide switches, so read GPIO again that takes the address as the argument.

Okay so that's it, so this code will basically read from slide switches okay and write it back I noticed that the user, the application developer who is writing this software, he doesn't have to know about any registered details because you have abstracted it and the only information that he needs to know which are the functions for reading and writing. That's it. So I told him this is the function to read, read GPIO, he needs to pass a pointer and write HGPIO for writing that address information, base address plus 4 information is abstracted from him. That is handled by my driver so basically this.h and.c file together they constitute the driver and this one if you test on hardware after

generating this string it might be working. So what I am going to do now is This.c and.h files, I want to distribute them also as a part of my IP core. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-SCT, ILA‐SCT, and also you can include if you prefer but we usually take only the driver files okay I take them from there I will go to the IP wrapper, GPA controller, GPA controller and put them in the source folder so there are some driver files here provided by Xilinx I don't want them keep the make file there and I am I'm going to put this.cn.h files, the updated driver.

Okay? So now onwards when you give your IP to other people, you will be giving this ndef folder, this XML file, component.xml, the HDL files, the driver file, the GUI file, all these files actually. Now, the change in driver source code has to be updated in the component.xml file. So what you need is, you need to open that Vivado project which was used for editing that IP. Remember? So that's why we kept that project here. This one, Edit GPIO Control. So open that and open component.xml And here you can only see a warning here under file group.

If I click the warning here, he saying, he cannot find this file, GPIO Control.h This file was there before, the one from Xilinx which I just deleted. Okay? And if I come here under software driver, if I expand, yeah he is saying like he cannot find these three files because I already deleted them. What you can do is you can right click and choose remove file and you can add your own and then you can see the one-on-trip files now to this one. OK, so choose OK, OK, now your files came here, the one we created, GPAU-CTRL.H and GPAU-CCTRL.C, but still you can see some warning here and the warning is basically saying for these two files, OK, path is included. For example, you can see these three files are also there actually,

tickle file and make file. And if you see the path to the file, you will see it's only return driver, GPA, your control source, make file. So the path is with reference to your project. But here you can see the entire path is the VVVado project IP or for GPA control. Now, if you distribute your component dot XML to other people, this will definitely cause problem because they should have VIT, VIT, ILA, ILA and ILA, and ILA are the same. So you need to change the position of these files with reference to the project.

That means basically we need to store only driver, GPO control 1, source, GPO control dot H and dot C. We don't want this Vivado part. But unfortunately, I cannot change it in this GUI here. I cannot change it here, there is no option to change it here but if you remember this information is actually coming from Confluent.xml which is a text file so I can go here and open that Confluent.XML file and modify it directly there so D colon, so D colon archive location, okay Zepic file actually, V Now this information is not updated there yet, so it will be updated only if I go to Review and Package and choose Repackage Ok, now this information is updated here, now I should be able to find it

So, here you can see the entire path is here, VUART or project IP report. So we delete it and only keep from driver onwards. Just keep driver GPIO and save it here. Close it and here close this and double click component dot XML once again and this time when he opens if I go to file, could open software driver you will see like it starts So again, let's repackage once again. Okay, and close it. Okay. So we changed the IP. That means if I come back to Vivado where I created the system he is saying like IP catalog out of date that means some IPs have changed you need to click refresh and you need to Click Show IP Status, and here he is showing like GPIO control has changed on the disk.

So you need to choose upgrade selected. Okay. So he updates it to the newer version. Although the Vilog code didn't change, he detected the component dot XML file has changed. That's why this warning came. Okay. You can generate everything once again. So what I'm going to do is, I'm going to close this SDK project. And I am just deleting that SDK folder also. So that's my GPIO. There is this.SDK. I am deleting it. And what I will do is, go here and again Export Hardware. OK. And I'll say Launch SDK. OK, this is just to check whether my drivers are automatically exported to SDK, the updated one.

OK, so my original source code in SDK I have already deleted but the driver's source code I have associated them with my IP code. Now this time when SDK opens you can see this folder here drivers, and if you open it here you can see gpa control dot C and gpa control dot H they are already exported to SDK. So what I can do is I can just go here new application project and choose gpa your test and next empty application finish, the source I can say source file and again test GPIO, GPIO.C and you can just say hash include whatever the header file was GPIO control GPIO, CTRL.H, Intmain, I can look at the header file and just say GPIO control, gpa-control my, gpa-u, and init gpa-o, membersign my, gp-a-o, and include

Xperometers, and pass the base address here, then Y1, the same code that you wrote before. OK, write gpau, ampersand my gpau homework, read gpau ampersand, my gpao. Now what I wanted to show you that when you distribute your IP to other people they will SoC will have direct access to this driver, so the only information they want to check is what is the name of the structure to represent your hardware, what is the function for initialization, what is a function for write, what is a functional for key and they can directly write the application software.

This is the application software, this is the driver software. And you have the stand-alone OS standing in between these two. And you have a low level hardware here. Okay, so always remember whenever you develop your IP core, it is your duty to develop the corresponding drivers also and include that driver software in the IP folder and update it in component.xml so that automatically gets distributed to the third party. Okay, that's all. Thank you.
