Hello, welcome back. In the last video, we have seen how to design the OLED controller, but as I discussed, your hardware implementation of the controller is not of much use. Each time you want to display something, you have to recompile your code and re-implement everything. So what we are trying to do is take a more hard disk of the code design approach. We will have the OLED controller, which will be interfaced with the processor in the same part of the Zynq chip. And using software, I will be able to control what should be displayed on the OLED display. Now to do that, we will retain the core part of the OLED controller. So I'm not going to change this part of the OLED controller. What we

are going to change is the stop module part. So what are the stop module is doing? For example, providing the string and providing the valid signal, checking for the ready signal, basically the state machine. This part we will be modifying and instead of using a state machine here, we will be using some registers to do it. So the initial step is exactly same as the steps that you use for developing the GPIO IP. So we will start with an IP generation wizard of Vivado. We will specify how many registers should be there, things like that. Then we will have to somehow interface those registers with my current logic.

Now again, there is a standard way of doing it. For example, if I look at my OLED controller, this is the data which has to be sent to the display. And as you have seen, we are basically sending the ASCII code for a particular character for doing this. So what I will do is when I design an IP code, I will designate a particular register and I will say I will store the ASCII code in that register and that register value will be sent to the OLED display. Similarly, we have this valid signal. So I will basically say I have a register inside the IP. Usually we call it a control register because that register is controlling how my IP is going to operate. And I will define

like the zero bit of the control register. I will make it one to indicate I have a valid data for displaying. And this signal, the done signal, what we will do is we will connect this signal to another register. Let's call it the status register because it's basically telling what is the status of the controller whether he finished sending or not. And once the controller sends the data, he will make the status register 0 bit equal to 1. Now, how the processor will manage it. If the processor wants to send some data, he will store that particular character in our so-called data register, then he will make the controller register value to 1. That means this signal will

become 1, then the OLED controller will send it. And once he sends it, he will make this signal high, which will make the status register bit 0 high. And the processor will be constantly monitoring this signal to check whether OLED has sent that data or not. Once he finds like OLED has sent that data, he will send the next data to the register to send to the display. Okay, so this is the approach we are going to use. And most of the IPs, this is the approach, like you will have some control registers where the processor will set some control values.

There will be status registers where the IP will show what is his current status, whether he is ready, not ready sending data, things like that. And there will be some data registers where the processor comes and writes the appropriate data. Okay, so that's the approach. So what I will do is I will go to Tools here. So I am in the same project where we stopped last time. This is the project from where you completed the OLED controller. So from that project itself, I am going to Tools and create a package new IP, choosing XC4-Peripheral.

And let's call my IP as OLED-Control. Okay, so let's say like IP for controlling OLED display. Number of registers. So basically, we may need a control register, status register, and data register. Three registers are enough. So we will keep it as 4 itself, which is the minimum number supported in the interface here. We will still go with XI-Lite interface, because the performance requirement is not very high. So keep everything as such, and click on Edit IP and finish. Now Vivado will be opening a new project. Okay, so one mistake I guess that I did was I didn't choose where that IP should be stored. And by default, he used my previous selection. So he directly put it inside IP repo. But he didn't

create a new folder here to store it. So maybe later, we will move all these folders to a new folder and call it OLED-Control or something. Okay, but for you, you can, in the last window, in that wizard, you can choose a new folder so that he gives all of them there. Okay, fine. So this is the project automatically created for editing your IP. Okay, so let's keep all of them as such. So first thing I'm going to do is I want to bring all the source code, okay, all the core code for the OLED controller, which we already developed to this project. So I will say add source, and I'll choose add sources, and I will browse and bring all those files here. So

as I mentioned before, remember, those files are inside the dot sources folder in your previous project. So sources, care that are new. Okay, so these four are new files, which we created from that project. And we imported the SPI controller for that project from another project. Okay, so that is sitting inside the import folder inside dot sources folder. So I'm bringing that file also. Okay, so remember to check this copy sources so that he creates a new source, a new copy of the source files for the new project and say finish. So all those files are here. Okay, so first thing I'm going to do is making slight modifications here. For example, as I mentioned before, my plan is to bring this

data to be sent from the register inside my IP code. So currently, this data is coming from my state machine. So I want to move it from there, and I want to connect it to the register. So I'm moving it to the input output port. So I will declare input, send out to zero, send data here. Similarly, input, send data valid also, my plan is to bring it from the register. So I'll move it here and output, send done that I am moving to the input output port. And I'm going to delete this and stuff here and keep only the core, OLED controller code. Okay, so basically the data to be sent should come from somewhere, the data where it should come from somewhere and the send done will

be sent back to from wherever the data is coming. Okay, so next what I'm going to do is I will take this top module, I will go into the IP source code. So this source code looks exactly same as the source code for GPA controller, it's the exact same code, only the module name has changed because you gave a new name to your IP code. So go to that lower module, which has the code for XSCT interface. And I'm going to instantiate, you can actually instantiate wherever you want, but it's a good idea to instantiate it here towards the end. The top module here, let me call it all at top or something. Now we are going to connect the signal. Now remember previously the

clock and reset, they were directly connected from the input or pins of the FPGA. But now that is not the case, this code is inside an IP. So this clock should be the XC clock coming to your IP. So I will take the XC clock, this one, and I am directly connecting it to the clock signal here. Similarly reset, now remember XC uses active low reset, that's why it's written as XC reset M. So reset is low when it is active, but whenever we wrote our OLED controller logic, we are using active high reset, for example here you can see if reset. So what I will do is when I connect the XC reset here, I will invert it and I will just connect here. Okay, so when this logic is in reset,

I'm also in reset because I inverted it. Now SPI clock, SPI data, all these signals should be still going out of the FPGA. So you will have to wire them out till the top. So I'm just copy pasting them, copy paste them, all these signals should go out of the chip. So I will take their declaration from here, put them here, user for declarations, I will put them here. Now I will copy it and name the topmost module where our disease instantiated, I will put it there also and this declaration part, I will paste it in the top module also.

Okay, so that they are connected to the top module, from the top module they are connected here, remove this comma, they are connected here, from there they are connected here, from there they are connected here. Now the only stuff which is remaining are these signals, the data, valid and sender. Okay, so as I mentioned before, they should be connected to some of the registers. So this is what I am going to use. So I'm saying like I'm going to use slave-reg-0 as my control register, slave-reg-1 as my status register and slave-reg-2 as my data register. So whenever processor wants to send some data, one character, the processor will be writing it to slave-reg-2. Okay, so this is the logic where the processor is writing to the

register, what I can do is I can just take it from there and just plug it here, send data. Okay, so makes sense, so from the processor writes to that register that comes here. Now send data valid, as I mentioned, I'm going to use the 0th bit of control register to indicate I have a valid data. So I will go and take slave-reg-0, it's 0th bit. So when the 0th bit becomes high, the signal becomes high. Okay, now remember this data valid signal is used by the OLED controller to check whether there is a valid data or not. Now the processor will make this bit 1 to indicate he has a valid data to send and the OLED controller will send it. So we have the state

machine for doing it. Remember this is our state machine and this one, this is where we are checking it. Now the problem is who is going to make this bit back to 0 once the OLED controller sends it. Okay, the processor can do it, but the problem is again the processor is software based, so he will make this bit 1, he will check whether the OLED controller actually send that data by checking the status register. He may find like the data is already sent, then he will make it back to 0. But since it is software based, it takes several clock cycles to do it actually, maybe tens of clock cycles to do it. The problem is our state machine is running at very high clock

frequency. So he will see this data valid high for many times for the same data. Okay, so that's the problem if we do clearing of this bit under software control. So we need to clear this bit under hardware control so that as soon as the OLED controller sends the data, this bit becomes 0. Okay, so I need to move this logic from here. So I am removing the slave-rage 0 logic from here and I am writing it separately like our GPA control again. Always. Okay, under reset, we will make slave-rage 0 and else begin. So we have two cases. One is when the processor writes to this register, the second case is once the OLED controller finishes sending, he should make this register value to 0. So how do we know whether the OLED controller

finishes sending? That information is coming through this signal send done. So let me replicate it. So what I am saying is if send return, when that signal becomes high, I will make it 0. Else if processor wants to write to this register, then whatever data processor is giving, that should go there. So I will say slave-rage write enable is high and the address equal to equal to 0. Then this register will be what our data is coming from the processor. You don't have to write that for loop and it's simply to complicate things. This is good enough.

SXAW data, this is the data coming through AXI. I am storing it in the slave register when the processor wants to write and the address to which he is writing is 0, which is my control register. Okay, so I can remove this one because you can have the register on the left hand side only inside one always block. I need to remove this one also. So basically, slave-rage 0, it is written by the processor and cleared by hardware. Again, this is a very common scenario you will encounter whenever you write hardware code. Now, the order in which you write here has some significance. For example, here send done signal has higher priority over the processor writing case and it should be kept like this because in case if the processor is writing

to this register as well as send done is coming from the OLED controller, the register should be cleared for the proper operation. You can think about it why it is so. So this order matters. Send done should be having higher precedence over writing from the processor. Now, same way slave-rage 1, slave-rage 1 is basically telling the status of whether I finish sending or not. So that register will become 1 when send done is high and the processor will be checking my register to check whether I finish sending or not. Once he finds the bit is high, he will understand I have finished sending. Now, the processor should clear that bit. Using software you should

make that bit to 0 before sending the next data. Otherwise, that bit will remain there forever and when the processor try to send data immediately he will find like the data has been sent but actually it is not. Okay, so the status will be set by hardware and cleared by software just the opposite of control register. So I am again taking the same code here and I am making slave-rage 1 here and the reset is 0. If send done this register will become 1. Otherwise, when the processor is writing to address 1 this register content will become what our processor is writing. Processor will be basically writing 0 that we will control from software and we write the software. Okay, so here

it is set by software, cleared by hardware. Here it is set by hardware, cleared by software. Okay, so again you have to move this from here, move this from here, move this from here. Otherwise, when you go for implementation you will get multiple drive error. That's it. So we have completed the code. Now we can go to IPX Act and we can match all the changes and we can read package. Now there are some warnings here. So one warning is if you go and check warnings here OSPI clock associated bus interface bus parameter is missing OLED, SPI clock frequency hurts bus parameter is missing. So these two warnings are fine. You can ignore them. What Vivado basically says is you haven't specified at what clock frequency this OLED SPA clock will be

running. You can provide this information so that when he goes for placement and routing he knows what is the clock frequency so that he can place and route it appropriately. But even if you don't give this one it is perfectly fine because he knows at what clock frequency the entire system will be running based on that he might be able to derive and find out at what clock frequency this clock is running. And this warning is basically telling you haven't specified which interface is running at this clock frequency. Again that is fine. This entire SPA interface is running on this clock. So if you prefer we can group them together to a single interface and

use it later. Maybe I will show it in another project how to do all these things when we use maybe XC4 full interface for high performance. So here you can ignore this warning package and we are done. Okay so that project is closed. Now to test it and to develop the driver I'm starting a new project. Let me call it OLED controller test. Yeah I can close the previous project. Maybe one thing I will do is I will group all this folder into a single folder inside my IP wrapper. Let me call it OLED control like our GPA control and let me move all of them inside this folder. Okay this is our component.xml. Now okay we have it create a block design.

Let's call it OLED system or something. Now the steps are exactly same as our GPIO. Okay we have Zynq processing system added or automation. Okay but if you try to add your OLED it won't be displayed here by default. So we need to go to settings, IP repository and browse and show that folder. So let me give this IP wrapper because both my IPs are sitting there and here showing like here detected two IPs GPA control from our previous project and OLED control our new one. Okay and now if I search for OLED okay that is here. Connection automation fine they are all connected. Only thing left is you have to make all of them external.

Make external. Okay save it. Create HDL wrapper or you can test whether things are all correct. Validate design. Successful. Address editor. You can see address is already assigned. Okay I can say HDL wrapper. Okay it is generated. Now you can go ahead and generate with stream and export after that or you can export now itself. I am exporting now itself export hardware. Okay so before that we need to generate so called the output product. So click this and say generate output product. Last time you didn't have this case because you generated bitstream then only you exported. So basically this generate output product what it does is it fetches all the source code

for all these IPs either from installation directory and if they are user-defined IP it fetches from the folder where you have kept these files like in our IP wrapper folder and he keeps all those files locally for this project. That is what is happening when you click generate output product and you can export your hardware to SDK only after this step. Okay so this is the minimum step required. When you click generate bitstream this step automatically happens. So that's why previously you didn't see it. Okay so now he's synthesizing but parallelly we can export actually. So export hardware but keep this option unchecked because my bitstream is not ready yet and launch SDK. Okay so as usual we'll go to file,

new application project. Let me call it OLED test or something and standalone. Next empty application, finish. So I'm going to write my software in a proper driver style. The same way we wrote it for the gpa controller. I will have two files basically. I will have a header file where I will have the structure and all the functions declared. Then I will have another file the source file where I will define all these functions. Okay so I'm choosing new header file. Let's call it OLED.H and here I'll have my structure type the struct OLED controller. Let me call it OLED control OLED control. So we have U32 base address here also. So I'll have a init. I have a function to initialize OLED and it will take OLED control and the base address

as the parameter. I'll have OLED say some function to write to the OLED. Right so we need to write some data to the OLED. We'll be sending one character at a time. So let me call it write character to OLED. Again it will take two parameters the pointer as well as a character. So let me call it char my char or something. There is no separate function for reading from the OLED because you cannot read from the OLED display actually. Okay so basically these are the two functions you need but you may find you require additional functions. For example you want to send one entire string to the OLED display. So this one is sending only one character at a time but suppose you

want to send an entire string what you will do is you will take the string and you will send character by character from the string. So that function will be basically using this function internally. So let me call it print OLED or something. Again it takes two parameters pointer to the OLED and a character string so it will be a char star type, pointer, character pointer type and we'll be passing a string there. Okay so basically we need only these three functions. If we need additional we will add so we'll have source file. Let's call it OLED.C and we'll include OLED.H here and we will define each function. So int OLED, init OLED or this function does is Y OLED base address it will initialize and let's return 0

to indicate finish initialization. Now write OLED what we need to do. So remember one character is coming and as per our hardware design this character has to be saved in our data register which is the third register. So the address of that register will be base address plus 8. 0 is controlled for status plus 8 is the data register. So first thing that you need to do is zilout32 YOLATE base address plus 8 to that you will write this character. After that you need to send the valid bit which is the 0th bit of the control register. So for that what you'll do you will do zilout32 base address which is the control register to that you will write 1.

Okay no valid is set. Now what the processor has to do is he should wait until this data is sent. So how does he know whether the data is sent he has to read the status register and he should keep on reading the status register until it becomes 1. That is how we designed our hardware. So let me declare another variable called maybe U32 status and let me say and initialize maybe to 0 while not status as long as the status register is 0 what I will do is status equal to zilint32 and we read from the status register which is base address plus 4 the second register.

Okay so this is what we call as a polling mode. The processor keeps on reading from a register to check the status of a peripheral. Now this is a very inefficient way of checking for status. Now later we will see the idea of interrupt. So during if we are using interrupt the processor doesn't have to check for the status continuously instead once the peripherals once the once the IIP finishes what are he supposed to do he will send a special signal to the processor saying like I have done it then the processor can do whatever he wants to do. Okay that is what we call as interrupt we will discuss it more in lecture then we will modify our hardware and software accordingly. For the time being let's use this polling mode.

Okay so once the status becomes 1 the processor will come out of the loop because now status is 1. So as I've said before the processor should make the status register back to 0 otherwise next time when you call this function you will come here you will immediately find the status is 1 but that status is not from the current transmission that is from the previous transmission. So you need to do Zilout32 base address plus 4 and let's write 0. This completes the character writing. Okay so our last function is printollet okay so this will be giving us one complete string and we need to send that entire string. So my idea is I am going to take one character at a time from the string and I will send it one by one. Now if you look at

the function you are getting a pointer so this pointer will point to the first element of the string okay so it is enough to send this pointer then you can increment the pointer so that the pointer will point to the next element in the string so and so forth until you finish the entire string. Okay so how does the code look like? I can say while this is not a null character keep sending okay again you have to refer to some C textbook or resources to understand the idea what it is basically doing. I can say while star my string that means the pointer the data pointed by my pointer is not equal to zero I'm going to call this function and I will pass star my string here so star my string stands for the data pointed by the point

if you just write my string this is the pointer that means it represents the address okay star OLED okay so write OLED okay so this should be the pointer to OLED okay OLED don't put star OLED here because this itself is a pointer so if you put one more star here the whole idea changes it represents a pointer to a pointer okay but you have to put a star here because this is a function parameter declaration so you need to say like this variable represents a pointer that's why you put pointer here star here so this itself is a pointer so just pass it here and this one is star my string and once it is done so he will go to this function he will send the character you will come back here the pointer should be pointing

to the next data so you need to say my string plus here don't put star because you want to increment the pointer you want to increment the address if you put star here that basically means increment the data pointed by the point that is not what you want you want to increment the pointer itself so it should be like this okay so that's it so these functions are sitting inside so let's write our main function which will be used for testing everything let me call it main.c so here we of course need OLED.h we also need Xparameters.h we have int main and first thing we create an OLED controller Y OLED next we call the init function so you need to pass the address

of the structure and base address we need to take from x parameter so this is the base address now we need to send it so i am planning to print again hello world so i'm calling this function print OLED and first one is the pointer and second one is the string you want to set maybe i will declare the string at the top so let me just do castor my string is hello world okay so this is one way of declaring string in c there are other ways also but this is good enough so my string and so that completes our software so for hardware design now you will run synthesis once synthesis is done you will open it you will assign the pin constraints for the OLED display so you don't have to constrain clock entries at this time because they are coming

internally then you will go ahead and run implementation and generate bitstream so i have already completed them now let's test it so you can either re-export your hardware from here export hardware and include bitstream this time you check this option so the bitstream is also copied to the SDK and you can run everything from SDK or it's also possible to program your hardware from Vivado and just run the software from SDK so this time let me show how we do it so i'm not exporting bitstream this time so when i click this program if we here there is no bitstream because we have an export so when i go to run configuration this time again i will choose this

option i will choose standalone and just keep these two options click run ps7 in it and post config and under application choose the application okay apply close and first thing is you need to program so i'm going to program from Vivado so i will just program it from here using the bitstream and make sure the blue led is on then i will come back here and i will just run the software from here so run configuration first time we need to click from here run and the software runs and i can show you the output okay you can see it is showing hello world but like our previous one lot of other pixels are also on because it's storing data in some gd run so we don't know like what is the default value in those gd run so maybe that's why

other pixels are on so one thing now you can do is since you have a software here i can write a function or it may be clear or alert which will basically clear the entire alert okay so let's write this function also so what i have to do is i will go here and write the body okay so basically i need to clear the entire display that means i will send how many bytes i have four pages and each one 128 so 128 times four character i will send and all of them i will make zero okay so u32 let's call i for let's say i equal to zero i less than four times each one 128 so that is the total capacity of wallet 128 column oh my mistake here we are dividing it into eight by eight pixels so how many characters are there in one row we have

128 by eight we have actually 16 character in one page like that four pages okay 128 is the total number of column but our display is eight by eight so it takes eight column for one character so i need to count number of characters 16 characters and four pages in total so 64 characters in total so less than 64 i plus i will do write OLED and my OLED here and i say yes the character i will send this empty blank okay so that gets written to the OLED now what i will do is i will take this one and before printing after initialization before printing i will just call this function so that it is the entire display okay now let me run it once more

okay let's see camera and now you can see hello world but it's coming in two lines you need to go and think why it is happening let me give a clue each time when you write run your software your ip core is not getting reset okay so you remember the state machine inside the OLED which has a column address counter so each time you send a string the string will be displayed at the next column from where it was displayed last time okay so that's why we already had hello world when i ran the software previously so next time when i run hello world it will come after the previous hello world after the position of the previous hello world that's why it is coming like that but our clean function clear OLED function is working that's why you will see like random pixels are not formed now you can add more features to the software you can add more functions where you can exactly specify on which page it should be displayed which column should be displayed based on that you will have to send dummy character dummy empty characters before printing your actual string or you may modify your hardware again you can have additional registers where you can specify the page number and the column position and your state machine takes the page address and the column position from those registers instead of currently we don't have such control it simply increments each time we send some data so instead of that he takes data from these registers and use those registers to decide

from which position he wants to display so that you have better control that you can do another thing another thing that you can do is like our GPIO previously you can take your software from here and store it here or it controlled in the driver folder here so instead of these two you delete these three files and replace them with these two file actual driver like this and you can delete them and you have to go and repackage your IP this time so that next time when you export software these drivers are automatically included in your SDK that is another thing that you can do and maybe here another thing that you can do is in your hardware you can you can

remove the entire OLED controller and keep only the SVA controller there and connect the registers directly to the SVA controller in that case all the initialization command everything has to be sent from the software so your init function will basically send all those initialization sequence to the SVA controller then it gets initialized then you will again send the command for setting the page address, corner, matrix, etc then you send the actual data that's also possible so in that case you won't have the OLED controller in hardware that is more or less completely in software but you will have only the SVA controller in hardware so that's also possible so I guess

after this tutorial you have a better idea about developing IP core so you will always develop your core logic first you will test it simulate it and even test on hardware sometimes to make sure it is working fine then you create your IP template then integrate this core logic with the IP template with the help of the internal registers and you connect them accordingly and then you create your driver okay so that's it thank you
