Hello and welcome back. So before next tutorial I would like to give some background what we are trying to do. So, we will be looking at something called Direct Memory Access or DMA. So let's look at a scenario. So for example we have a system as shown in figure. I have a processor which is interface with the memory and one or two peripherals. OK, so they are all connected through the system bus which is an abstract view of your address data and control buses in the system. Now for this system there is only one master.

The master is the one who initializes all the data transfer and for our current system the master is the processor and he's the only master. And only the master can initialize a real-write operation from the memory or from any other peripheral in this system. So assume our peripheral, this peripheral one, he wants to read some data from the memory so that he can do some processing imaging. This is some peripheral for doing some image processing, so that image is already stored in memory. Now he needs to get that image so that he can process it.

Now as I mentioned before the only master is the processor, So only he has direct access to memory, The peripheral cannot directly read from the memory. So what happens is the processor will read the data, data, the image data from the memory one by one, maybe one word at a time and stores it in its internal register. Then later that data is transferred to the peripheral one. Okay? So this kind of data transfer we call it Programmable Input Output or PIO kind of data Transfer. Now you can see for each data transfer like each word or each byte, it involves two operations the processor has to first read it from the memory then it has to write to the bit of error and they happen in sequential manner. Processor cannot read and write at

the same time because it is happening under software control which is sequential that It is one reason, and another reason is all the peripherals and memory are connected to the same system bus. So you can have only one operation on the system bus at a time, either a read operation or a write operation. So each read and write they happen in sequential. Again remember this is happening under software control it is done by your processor so one entire read or write operation doesn't happen in a single clock cycle. It takes several clock cycles, tons of clock cycles usually maybe 12 clock cycles or 24 clock cycles for a single rig or write operation. So a large amount of time is spent on this data transfer

and if you want some high performance application for example again image processing or video processing. This kind of data transfer is highly inefficient. So you have a video frame stored in the memory and that has to be sent to the display controller. Now if the processor is reading it from memory and writing to the display control, you can imagine how many clock cycles it will take to send a complete frame. And usually the performance requirement It is 25 frames per second or 30 frames per second. So with this kind of data transfer, you won't be able to achieve it unless your system is running at very high clock frequency.

So in most cases, it is difficult to achieve this required performance. Now another major drawback of PIO is that the processor is stuck in this data transfer. It is not doing any useful work actually. It's just reads from memory and writes to the peripheral. For processor, he is supposed to do some processing but he is not doing any processing, he is just acting like a bridge between the memory and the peripheral, just reading and writing from memory to the peripheral or vice versa from peripheral to the memory. That is again one major drawback of PIO transfer.

Now to avoid this we introduce the concept of DMA, Direct Memory Access. So here as the name indicates the idea is the peripheral will directly access the memory. Okay, instead of going through the processor, the peripheral can either transfer data directly from memory to the peripheral or it can transfer data from the peripherals to memory depending upon whether he wants to. Then the DMA controller will write it to the peripheral. Now, it seems like it is similar to what is happening with the processor reading and writing so the performance is quite low but in this case performance is higher actually you will see why shortly before that few more interesting thing now as I mentioned before remember only master can access the memory

In a system. Okay, now I already told like the DMA controller he is the one reading from the memory. So our DMA controller, he's a master in this case. Now for this particular system, now there are two masters. Processor is a master who can read and write from memory of peripheral. DMA controller is also a master who could read or write from the memory of peripherals. But at a given point of time only one master can access the system bus, otherwise there will be collision. There'll be signals, some of them will be driven high by the processor, some of them will be drawn low by the DMA controller so there will be collision.

So it's similar to multi-drive scenarios. So two masters cannot access the bus at the same time. So there should be an operation called Bus Arbitration, which decides which master gets to use the system bus. And this arbitration, this decision making is usually done by another piece of hardware called the Arbitrator. Okay? Now whenever a master, either the processor or DMA controller wants to use the System Bus, first it should request the Arbitrator for the bus access. Only once the arbitrator gives access, the master will be able to use the system. That's the scheme we usually use So it will look something like this you can see so this is the arbitrator

So you can see one request line going from the processor to the arbitrator and there is a grant line going back Similarly from DMA control also There's a request line going, a grant is going. So first Master will request the arbitrator making this signal high and only if this signal is high, the grant signal is high that means the master can use the system bus. Now things are fine only if one master requests for the bus at a given point in time so he can just use the bus but what happens if more than one master and then you have the request for the bus at the same time.

Now, there the actual arbitration comes into picture and that happens under something called the Arbitration Policy of the system. So again there are different Arbitration Policy one of the simplest one is TDMA so you divide time into different time slots and you give each time slot to each master. So sometimes what happens is this even this request signal won't be there, there will be only the grant signal in the TDM scheme. So it doesn't matter whether a master is requesting for a bus or not he'll always get access to the system for a bus for a particular time slot after that the next master will get the time slot so on and so forth. So this is a very simple scheme but the drawback is even if a master doesn't request for a bus, he's getting access. So we are wasting the system bus actually. Now to all commit there are other policies again one of the simplest one is called a round robin arbitration. So in this round robin arbitration if nobody is requesting nobody gets access. If only one master requests he will get the access. If more than one master requests for the bus, the master who got access most recently he will have the lowest priority. So in this way we make sure no master is starved of the resources and everyone gets access to the system bus in a fair manner.

So in that sense round-robin arbitration, it's a fair arbitration scheme again it has its Sound drawback because sometimes we have masters with very high priority, he wants to do some Algendata transfer and there are other masters who are doing some bit-frodo work. This happens under the control of a DMA controller, which is a pure hardware circuit brought like a processor which is running under software control. So if we ‐‐ even if there are two data transfers involved here reading from the memory and writing to the peripheral since this is purely hardware, this data transfer is much faster than the one happening under the processor supervision so that is one advantage

and also the advantage of DMA transfer. Another major advantage may be we would say the processor is relieved from this data transfer job, and instead of wasting his time on data transfer the processor can do some real processing. So this data transfer will be done by the DMA controller. Parallelly the processor will be able to do some other data processing. This is especially true when your system is multitasking, it is running multiple tasks at the same time. So the data transfer part is taken care by the DMA controller and the processing part is taken care of by the processor and he can run in parallel as long as the processor doesn't have to use the system bus.

Now if the processor also has to use the systems bus to read something from the memory then we have to go for the Arbitration and only one of the masters can use the system bus. But again modern systems, we have the cache memory which is sitting between your main memory and the processor. So processor he doesn't have to access the memory very frequently most of that data will be available in the cache memory so he can process data from the cache memory. So there is no need of Arbitration. Okay? So that will again speed up the system operation.

Now another way to make DMA transfer faster is to change the system architecture. So here you can see there is a single system bus which is shared by memory and all the peripherals including the DMA controller, that is why you can have only one data transfer at a time either read from memory or write to the peripheral or read from the peripheral and write to the memory. Now, instead if we go for such an architecture as shown here where the peripheral is directly connected to DMA controller. So you can see this is not a shared bus.

This is a point-to-point connection between the DMA controller and the peripheral. And the system bus is shared only between the memory and the DMA controllers. So in this case, the DMA control he can read from the memory and at the same time he can write to the peripheral also. Okay, so things can happen in parallel. So you can imagine like the DMA controller has some internal buffer so he constantly reads from the memory and fills that buffer at the same time another logic he reads from that buffer and writes to the peripheral okay so this is some kind of store and forward scheme we say and read and write are happening in parallel or the vice versa also he can

and constantly read from the peripheral store it in internal buffer. At the same time, he can transfer that data to the memory using the system. So this will make the performance much faster actually. Maybe the drawback here is we need one DMA controller dedicated for one bit for because there is a point connection but in this case one DMA controller can be used for multiple peripherals if you have many peripherals on your system since all of them are sharing the same system bus and all of them memory mapped.

So every peripheral and memory have the common memory mapping in the system architecture but here you will see the peripheral is not memory mapped, it's not connected to the system bus It is connected directly to the DMA controller, so there is no concept of memory mapping here. This is a point-to-point data transfer. Now the interesting question is how does the DMA Controller know when it needs to transfer data and from where it needs to do the data transfer and how much data it needs to transfer? So these things actually happen under software control or they are configured by the processor.

So, effectively the DMA controller is mastered to every other SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. transfer data where it should be stored and how much data should be stored usually in number of bytes. So these are the three information the processor has to write this is true with reference to this system architecture for example you need to transfer data starting from memory address 1000 and you need to transfer say 1 kilobyte and you need to transfer it to this peripheral so the processor will write these three information to the DMA controller. So he will say the starting address for data transfer is 1000 or 100 whatever I said before, he needs to transfer 1024 bytes

and where he wants to store the data, he will give the internal register address of this peripheral. He will configure that address here because remember from processor point of view every peripheral is memory map they all look like some kind of memory so once these things are configured What he does next is the processor will set the control register inside the DMA controller. So, he may set a bit saying like start at answer. So once this bit is set, the DMA Controller will start reading from the source address from where he needs to read from and he starts writing to the destination address which is configured by the processor.

and he keeps on doing this reading and writing until the configured amount of data is transferred. Once that much data is transferred, he will set some bit in his status register to indicate he has finished that at transfer. Okay? So the processor will be constantly reading this status register as we mentioned. In our previous tutorial, we called it as a polling operation or there will be a dedicated The network line going from the DMA controller to the processor is called as the intra-line, intra-signal and that signal will become high telling the processor that the data transfer is over.

Then the processor can decide like what should happen next. Now if you are using this architecture okay instead of this one the information that the processor has to configure are different because the peripheral is not memory mapped. This is not connected to system bus, so he doesn't have the idea of memory mapping. So what the processor has to configure are again the starting address of the memory if he's transferring from memory to the peripheral, how much data he needs to transfer and the direction of that a transfer.

The direction can be either memory to peripheral or from peripheral to memory. If it is transferring to peripheral, we will say we need to do memory to peripheral transfer. If it is via one to transfer the process data back to memory, it is a peripheral to memory transfer. These three information the processor has to configure. OK, so this is slightly different from what he has to configure when everyone is mapped to the system. Now let's see how, so whatever I mentioned till now, this is a general description, this is how we do it in a general computing platform.

Now let's the specifics to the Zynq chip and the system based on Zynq, how it is done. So remember, Zynq has an old chip memory 256Kb you can see here and you can So, we are going to transfer data between this memory and the peripheral. But now we are actually interested in transferring data between the external DDA which is the main memory which is sitting outside the Zynq chip but interface with the ZynQ chip on the ZedBoard. On ZedBoard you have virtual MB of DDS so this is quite large compared to this one and will be using this memory for storing image video etc.

So what we are interested is to transfer data between this external memory to some peripheral, some IP core which is implemented in the PL part of ZYNC. Okay so that's what we are interested in now you can do it through two paths one path is you can interface your DL, through a DMA controller, through the AXI general purpose port. So remember there are four AXI GP ports general purpose two of them masters, two of them slave interface okay so as I mentioned before for DMA the DMA controller will act as the master So here will be interface with the slave interface here.

So here is the master, so it should be connected to the slave interface. So the terminology, master-slave or the AXI interfaces, they are with reference to PS. So when I say master interface of PS, that means as far as that interface is concerned, the processor is the master. So when I say the slave interface of PS, that interface can be connected to a master in the PL and logic in the PL can access this external media through that interface. So you have two slave interfaces here, you can connect to either of them and you can access it like that.

Another way is, okay I guess I missed that slide. You can access it through the HP board here and we have four HP ports, high performance and all four are slave interfaces so the master in the PL can access the memory through this interface and we prefer the HP port because has the name indicates the performance of this interface. High-performance port is much more than the performance of GB port, general purpose. So usually we prefer interfacing the peripherals and DMA controller in the PL through the HP port, through this Amba interconnect, through this multi-port DRAM controller to the external DDR.

So this multi-port DRAM controller, which is actually part of your PS, it acts as an arbitrator for the memory. So if the processor and the DMA controller here, if they are trying to access the memory at the same time, this controller will decide who will get access to the DDR because only one master can access the DDR memory at a given point in time. OK, so we are going to use an IP core from Xilinx called the Xilinx AXI direct memory access IP as our DMA controller. So you don't have to write your own DMA controller which is a good news.

Xilinx take you in the IP core list, you can go and search it called the XC-DMA IP which we'll be using as the DMA controller. And this IP core, it follows this system architecture. So notice that the peripheral is not connected to systemless, the peripheral is actually directly connected to the DMA Controller. So this is the architecture expected for this DMA Controller and you can see like he has many interfaces. Actually he has five XE interface, you can and see two of them here, and three of them here. So total he has five XI interfaces, so let's see what each of them does.

So one thing I would like to point out is the naming conversions used by signing. So you'll see whichever interface starts with S, that stands for slave interface. So they usually say S underscore, that means this is a slave interface. and whatever starts with M stands for master interface, M underscore. So these three are masters, XSCT, XSCT and SoC stands for Advanced Accidental Interface, which is a memory mapped interface. So you read and write based on the address concept. Now AXI stands for AxiStream interface, which is point-to-point interface.

You don't have the concept of memory here. I will add the slide support, AXIStream later. So here there is no concept of memory map. This is a point-to-point bus actually. So you directly connect the master and slave here and the performance is very high for AXI stream interface. You can transfer one data every clock cycle through AXI, AXI-Stream interface. And the last one here it is written AXI, this is AXI-Lite interface, but for these two AXI it is not written LITE, it is written MM2S, S2MM, so MM2S stands for memory map to stream and S2MM stands for stream to memory map and here we again have memory map to stream and stream to memory map. So this is an AXI-Lite interface, these two are AXI4-Fool interface.

So again they are memory mapped but their performance is much higher compared to AXI-lite interface. Okay so now let's look at one by one. So here it's written maxis mm2s So as the name indicates, it's a stream interface. It's a point-to-point interface and this interface is used for writing data from the DMA controller to the peripheral. Okay, so this one. This one, stream-to-memory map, this interface is use for transferring data from the peripheral to the DMA controller. Okay, so again the terminologies master and slave they are given with reference to their DMA controller so in this case it's written m-axis stream that means the DMA controller he is the one who initiates data transfer he is the

one who is writing to the peripheral so that is why it is written m-axi stream So here it is S-axis stream, the DMA controller is a slave and the peripheral is the master. So the peripheral is one who is writing and DMA controller, is the one who is accepting data. So that is why the name is S-Axis. So in the picture I have shown it as a bi-directional bus but physically for our XA DMA IP core it consists of two independent bus, one going from here to here which is the M-AXI bus and one going from there to here which has the S-AXI.

Now again this interface, stream to memory map, it's a master interface, this is the interface used by the DMA controller to write to the memory. OK, so if data is coming from peripheral to the DMA controller he takes that data and uses this interface to write it to the DDR, to the external memory or to the memory. And this is the memory which is used for reading from the DDR. So if you need to transfer data from DDR to the peripheral first So first the DMA controller reads it from the DDR using this interface, then he writes it to the peripheral using the m-axis interface.

In the previous case, he wants to transfer something from the peripheral to the memory, so first he gets it from the peripheral through the s-axis interface, then and he writes it to the external memory through the M-AXI-S2MM interface. Now there is this final interface which is an AXI-Lite interface, so this is the interface used by the processor. So this will be connected to the processor and this is a slave interface because from processor point of view the DMA controller is a slave now and this is the interface used by the processors to configure the DMA controllers with the same information I mentioned before, from which memory location he needs to do data transfer, how much data

he needs to transfer, whether the data transfer is from peripheral to the memory or from memory to pay for that, and to access this controller, this just status register etc. All those So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, VDMA, UART, ILA, ILA. So, Vibro, VDMS, Zynx, ZynQ, VIDM, ILA and ILA, VDMC, ILA-SCT, ILA and ILA. So, VIBR, ILA is a very good software for VIBR. from the peripheral to the memory is completed. So there are two separate lines to indicate which data transfer is all. Now next we will make a small peripheral, which has AXI-Stream interface then later we will interface that peripheral with the DMA controller Xilinx DMA IP, then we will build a system, then we will try to do data transfer from memory to the peripheral as well as from the peripheral to the memory.
