Hello. So in this project we are trying to use the DMA-based data transfer to our peripheral. So as I mentioned before, we are going to use Xilinx IP core as the DMA controller. But one thing that we are missing is a peripheral, okay? To which I will transfer data. So we'll make it simple peripheral. Now remember the interface between the DMA and the peripheral is AXI4-Stream based. So let me give a quick overview of the AXIStream interface. So again as I mentioned before, AXIStream it's a point to point interface. The bus is not shared there is a dedicated bus between a master and a slave and there are very few mandatory SoC, Vitis, ILA, ILA-SCT, ILA and ILA-SPF, ILA.

SoC, ILA is a very simple device, it has a very simple interface, it has three signals on this bus. So as you can see in this picture of course this is a synchronous interface so there's a clock going to both master and slave then we have the data bus which can be 8 bit 16 32 any width that you wish then there is a valid signal going from master to slave this It indicates the data is valid, otherwise whatever data is on the database is an invalid data Similarly there is a signal called ready coming from the slave to the master which basically indicates the slave is ready to accept their data Okay. Now let's look at the waveform during data transfer Okay, so here you can see clock is running this is the valid signal. This is the ready

This is the data. Now on this clock, the master is saying he has a valid data and he places 15 as the data And the ready signal is already high from the slave And on the next clock if you see the valid as well as ready both signals are high And that constitutes a valid data transmission So in XSCT4-Stream interface, a valid data Transfusion happens only when both valid and ready signals are high at a positive clock edge. Usually, positive clock edge can be negative also but generally we work on the positive clock edge so on this clock edge both valid and ready are high and the data is actually 15 so this 15 gets transferred from the master to slave similarly on this clock

again, ValID is high, REDI is actually high only after this clock is REDI is going low. So this 20 also get transferred. Now if you look at this clock, okay so the master is saying he has a valid data, the data is 45 but the REDI signal is low that means the slave is not ready to accept that. So in this case there is no data transmission happening. Now if a valid data transmission does not occur, the master should hold the data on the bus until the slave is ready to accept it. So after this clock edge, ready becomes high, so on this clock edge, Ready is high, Valid is high and the data transmission happens and after this clock edge, Valid goes slow indicates that the master no longer has a valid data. So

Although the ready is high, on the next clock, no data transfer happens because there is no validator. Okay so this is how XSCT4-Stream works. The only thing to remember is data transmission happens only when valid is high as well as ready is high. Now you will notice that there is no concept of address here because it's a point-to-point okay? So there are dedicated bus between master and slave So there is no concept of address here, it's a point-of-point bus. So that's it. Now we prefer AXIStream because it gives very high performance. If you look closely, AXIStream can provide one data transmission per clock cycle in ideal scenario. Okay so if master

always have valid data and if the slave is already always ready to accept data, you can have One data transmitter every clock edge. But if you look at Axi-Lite interface or even XI4 interface, this is not possible because it's an address data interface. So first the monitor has to send the address, the slave need to receive the address then he has to send the data, then he has to access the data so on and so forth. So it will take several clock cycles for even a single data transmission in AXI-Lite interface. AXI4-Full is better than AXI- Lite because there's the concept of bursting that...

That means the master sends the address only once and after that he sends a burst of data. So there also data transmission can happen on every clock to certain extent like you usually have a burst of 16 or 32. So after that, the master again has to send the address so there will be a break in data transfer. So AXIStream gives the highest throughput actually but the drawback is again this is XSCT is not memory mapped, so a peripheral which follows XSCT interface cannot be directly interfaced with Zynq processor part, PS part because PS has only XSCT interfaces whether it is GP port or HP port they support only XS4 interface they don't support XSCT stream interface. So you cannot directly connect them you can connect the stream interface

only through some kind of bridge actually. So in our particular case this bridge will be the DMA controller which supports XE interface, XE4 interface okay fine so I guess you understood about the protocol XE4. So the first thing we need to build is a peripheral which we can and use for testing the DMA transfer. OK, so XSCT4-Stream peripheral, you can build it in different ways. One is the same way you build an XSCT Lite IP, same style. You start a project and go to Tools and say you want to create a new IP and choose the IP.

And when you choose the IP interface, you choose XSCT 4-Stream instead of XSCT The way we did last week. Last time we chose XIFO-Lite, instead of that you just choose XIFO stream. That is one way of doing it. But the template generated by Vivado for Xistream is little bit complicated. So there are much more signals than the valid ready and data. There are other signals also in Xistream but none of them mandatory they are all optional signals. OK, only these three are the mandatory signals. So the template from Xilinx they have these optional signals also so things may look a bit more complex. So instead of that what I will do is I will directly write my Virlo code for the XC4-Stream peripheral then from that

code I will create an IP instead of starting from an IP template and editing it. OK, so that's the project I'm going to do now. So I am going to project, I am starting a new project and the IP I am going call it an inverter. So it's a very simple IP. What it does is whenever it gets their data, it can be 32-bit wide data. So what it does is each byte of this 32 bit, so we have total 4 bytes in 32 bit, each byte will be subtracted from the number 255. So why we are doing it? It will be clear to you later because this is a so called inversion operation in image processing.

So image processing you have pixels if I'm talking about grayscale image, we have image So I'm going to call it Inverter. Now, I am directly choosing my IP repo to store this IP because as I said before, I am starting to code for this IP. So I'm choosing my IP repo directly so that all the source code will directly get stored in that folder. OK, so previously only that edit IP project we used to keep it in the IP wrapper. In this particular case I won't have that edit IP Project. I am directly writing my code in this project itself so keep it directly in the IP Wrapper.

Otherwise everything else is same. Okay, so I am writing my code. So I'm calling it Inverter.V. Now as I mentioned before what happens is the inverter gets some data and he takes byte by byte from that and subtracts it from 255 and sends it out. So he needs an interface which accepts data. He needs an interface which sends out data both follows XIFOR-Stream interface. Now the interface which is accepting the data, that is a slave interface so we need an XIFOR stream slave interface and the interface which sends out data, that is an XIFO-Stream master interface. Okay so the interface which is receiving data, we call it as a slave interface. The interface which

sends out data, we called it a master interface. So this IP has both a slave interface and a master interface and the common signal so we have input clock, so let me call it XC clock something like that, we have reset, AXI reset. Now, AXI protocol requires reset signals to be active loop. Okay so I am directly taking it as an active low signal to indicate that I'm putting an end at the end negative this is active low signal. Now slave interface, We have a valid signal coming from the master, the data coming from the Master and the slave interface sending out an ARD signal. Now I am going to use the style used by Xilinx themselves.

So I will call it S underscore, AXI-Stream, valid. To indicate this is a slave interface and this is AXIStream protocol, and this is the values. And input, let me make a 32-bit data interface, you can either write 32 there or you can parameterize it and here you can write hash parameter.width equal to 32 and use that value instead of directly giving 32 here so that in future if you want to change the data width, you can change S-axis data. Now we have output which is S-axis width. Okay, so that makes our slave interface.

Now, Master Interface we have output maxis-valid, output data width minus 1 down to 0, maxis-data, and we have input maxis-30. Okay, so that's it. Now let's write the code. So my aim is to take this data byte by byte and subtract it from 255 and give it to this bus. That's it. OK? Now, as I mentioned before, we are working on the positive edge of the clock. I need to take this data, when I should take this data only this is a valid data and I am ready to accept that data. Okay? Only under that case I will process data so we will write if S-axis valid there's a valid Data from the master, whoever is giving data and if I am So, this is the input always block.

So this is input always block, so it should be registered. Now if it is directly 32 bit like 31 down to 0 you will write something like that You need to subtract m-axis sorry s-axis data from 255 byte by byte So you may write 255 minus 7 down to 0 is 7 down to zero, like that. You need to do it by by, that's why we are writing like this. 0 to 7 then we have 8 to 15, we 16 to 23, 24 to 34, same value here. So this is how we write if it is fixed 32 bit. Now if you are parameterizing it, so we need to write a general case. So I will use a for loop in this case, you haven't seen for loop in synthesizable VITLU code before.

So that's why we won't make a blank statement like you cannot synthesize or implement for loop or while loop in VITLUB. You may or may not be able to implement a for loop depending upon the coding style and depending upon for what purpose you are using a for loop. So let me try something like this. For I, so the syntax looks exactly like our C syntax. So this I has to be declared. You can declare it as integer type actually. For I equals... So instead of writing like this, I need to write this in using a for loop. So I will find I need to divide them into multiple bytes.

So, i equal to 0. How many bytes I have depends upon my data width. So the data width divided by 8. So I will take i less than data width divided by 8. I, Unary operator is not supporter. You cannot write I++, you have to write I equal to I plus 1. Begin end. So how you'll write m-axis data? So if you see here you are going like first 0 then 8 10.16, 10.24 If you relate it with I, this lower index is basically I times 8. And upper index is 8 more than the lower index. Okay so slightly confusing you need to count including this I times 8 plus colon, 8, so this syntax looks a little bit weird but this is how you should You cannot write I times 8 here and I times 8 plus 7. Okay so it looks like this is I times

8 plus 7 here and I time's eight okay so you wanted to write something like this but unfortunately When you go for synthesis, this will give an error. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, XSCT, Zynq, ILA-SCT, ILA. I times 8, you say how the lower index is found and you need to say how big is the upper index compared to lower index here. I times 8 plus 8. Same way here, you need to say 255 minus, oh here I made a mistake. This is M-axis or this should be S-axis let's correct it here, S-axis because that is your input data, this is your output data, M-axis S data and we just replace this and we remove this. Now This became a general case. So what happens is during synthesis Vivado will unroll this loop

because this will be a constant value based on that constant value he will find what is the range of phi based on that he will unroll the loop and this code will be unrolled and it will look exactly same as before, provided your data width is 32 and you'll have eight lines of code if the data So you have it 64 and so forth, so you are doing it 40. Okay? So that's the idea. Okay! So if this is valid and this is ready, this is what is going to happen. Makes sense. No, always at the 4th search, AXI clock. You need to make this output signal next.

MXI-Valet. Valet, so I'm going to use it inside our list box and make a trash type. Okay, when do you have a valid data as output? You have a valid that has output when you have a valid data as input and you already processed it okay. So since this processing is happening on clock edge your valid data will come out one clock after you will receive an input valid data. Okay, so this m-axis valid data is basically this. Your output data is valid when you have a valid input data and you accepted it. If both things happen, you have a value data.

Now if you look at the wave diagram, this will coincide with this valid data actually. So when you have an output valid, you have a output valid data. So that's all. Now the only thing remaining is this ready signal, M-axis ready signal. Now when are you ready to accept data? Now this depends upon again our hardware design. Usually when a slave becomes not ready to accept it, that usually happens if you have an internal buffer, if you have an internal memory inside your IP and suppose your buffer is full, your memory is full. You won't be able to accept any more data from the master. So in that case, you will say like you are not ready to accept it. So now particularly as we don't

have any internal buffer what is happening is you are getting some data from outside, immediately you are sending that data out. Okay? So you're completely in streaming mode, You are getting input data, you are immediately trying to send it out. So in that case, you won't be able to accept new data when the guy who is supposed to accept data from you is not ready. So you are trying to send out some data to some slave through your master interface and if that slave is not ready to accept data, you will say to your master that I am not SoC, I'm not ready to accept that. So it will look something like this, assign S-axis ready equal to M-axis ready.

If your slave is ready to accept data, you are ready to accept it. If your slave not ready to accept the data, you're not ready to acceptance it. That's it. So that completes our coding. If you wish, you can simulate and see. Okay. Let me simulate some. Okay. Let move them back to parametric here. Data with minus one. ZeroDisserDataWidth, DataWidth minus one instead of writing 31 down to zero I have completely parameterized it. Let us relaunch since I changed the source code. Relaunch okay restart let's give some top frequency Let's clock, 10 nanoseconds, OK reset doesn't matter but still keep it 1, Valet let's make it 0 initially, Tata let's keep it 0 initially. Ready, don't touch, Valet Tata don't touch.

This is ready, let's make 0 initially, ok, so we can go clock by clock. Now suppose a master, where all I have connected he's giving me a valid data, so force constant 1 and data force constant In hexadecimal, let's say it's a 32-bit data. So let's say 1, 2, 3, 4, APCD. Or for simplicity, let me say FF00FF00FF1 by 2 by 3 by 4 by 5. Okay. And that's it. So I am running simulation, so I place to valid here, I place my data here, but the ready signal from my IP is low because the ready signal from here is low. Okay, so only when this ready becomes high, this ready will become high that's how we wrote our code.

So let me make this ready high, force constant 1, OK so this ready became high, so immediately this ready became High and on this positive edge you will see ready is high and value is high, ready is high, and value is high that means this data transfer happened. Now let me make this valid signal low, false constant 0. That means I have finished sending data. I have only one data. Now my output value became high here you can see and this is my output data. So I send F of 00, F of 00 but my output is 00, Fof 00, Ff which is an inverted version of this input. Okay, so my code is working now in simulation when I change the signal it is changing on the negative edge here okay that's fine if you changed it here on the positive edge you will see

your output value comes exactly one clock this is the output value this comes exactly one 1 clock after a valid utter transfer. That means when both valid and ready are high. In this case, since I changed it here, Kizheppatt is so valid already on this clock cycle. That's why the output value became high. Okay, so the code is working fine. We can exit simulation. Okay? Okay, so our next step is to create an IP from the source code. So previously we used to go to Tools and create a package new IP. So here also we'll go there.

And instead of choosing create a new XSIFO file, you will choose package your Canon project. So you are directly converting your Canon project into IP format. So next, choose the option defaults here and click finish. Now this won't open a new project for editing your IP. This is what I was mentioning before. He creates this component.xml file and it opens it in the current project itself, okay? And you can see vendor name if you wish you can change them everything. Okay so when you come to port you will see okay so these are the signals that you used S-AXI and M-AXI your clock can reset your clock signal directly when here and you will see like your AXI-Stream interface. Instead of showing it as a single interface,

it is showing it as three different wires and it has mixed the master and slip because Xilinx they always keep the inputs on the left and the outputs on the right based on that he put valid master value, master data here but slave ready here. This is fine but it will be easier When you group the signals together, which corresponds to the same interface. Remember your previous XI4-Lite interface? There if you look at the GUI, you will see like s underscore XC and all the XC signals are grouped together under that interface.

So we need to do something like that. And here you need to do it manually. So what you should do is, you should go here and choose Add-Press Interface And this wizard comes up. Here you need to choose the interface definition and we are going to use Xistream interface. So under XC you will see two options, XimemoryMap which is for Xifor interface which has a lot of signals you can see and the other one, Xistream interface. So choose this one, give some name to your interface. So your slave has actually two interfaces it has a master stream interface as well as a slave stream interface so you need to give some name-to-your interface. So let me call it maxis to indicate this is a master

axis stream interface. Now you need to go to port mapping and here you have to map the signal name that you have used with the standard AXI interface signal names used by Xilinx. Okay, for example we have S-axis valid here but the name that Xilinx use is something like D-valib. One second okay better to start from here so you need to basically map three signals Vivado, VIVADA, VALUE and READY. So Xilinx used the term T-data but for master interface we use the name N-axis data so you need to click these two and say map ports. So that later Vivado will understand your M-axis data is same as the data for AXI-Stream. These are the and you can see a lot of signals here except these three signal everything else

is optional so that's why we didn't use it so we need valid signal So, we are using maxis-valid and ready signal. And we are using Maxis-ready. That's it. Okay. So once you click okay here, you will see something called maxis-stream here. And under that all the master signals are grouped together. Now you have to do the same thing for the slave interface also. Go here, choose AXIS-RTL and give it S-AXIS, you can give what our name you prefer And this is a slave interface actually so you need to choose slave here Come here, T-data, maps to S-data, OK, T-valid, maps to s-valid and TRD maps to S3.

OK, see, now M-axis and X-axis. Now if you come to GUI, you will see he has two UI interface together. S-axis you can see under that your signals are here. M-axis under that your signal are here. Now there are a few more warnings here. And if we go to warnings messages, You can see what the warnings are. One warning is, okay this we saw in the previous IP packaging also and I told you I will explain you next time. He's basically saying you haven't specified which bus interfaces are controlled by this clock signal. Okay now Vivado needs to know this information so that he can properly place and route your signal.

So what you should do is, you go to this clock signal and go to parameter here and choose add parameter and you type associated plus interface and click OK. Ok so this is a predefined parameter and here under value you need to specify which interfaces are controlled by This clock, which clock, AXI clock. So our M-axis and S-axis they are controlled by this clock so that you need to give us value. So M-axis now the interfaces should be separated by a corner actually. M-axis, and S- axis. They are the one controlled by this Clock signal.

OK, so your warning goes away. Actually there was one more warning which was basically saying you didn't specify the default clock frequency at which this bus is running. Again that is optional parameter if you wish we can go and specify that also. This is the name of the parameter, frequencyhertz. And you need to give the frequency at which this interface is going to run in hertz. So our system is running at 100 MHz. You need to specify in hertz so these many hertz. Okay. Now if your command are addressing on memory it won't show anything because there is no concept of address here.

This is a point-to-point interface, so that is blank. Now you come back here, Review and package and IP-RAPL that you should do when you start the project. You should say your project should be stored in this particular repository and once that is done we say package IP. And now if I go to the folder, ipropro, I have my inverter here. Now that component.xml it got stored here actually inside my sources folder here and you will notice like there is no folder for drivers and all okay so if you go through This way of generating an IP, there won't be separate folder for drivers and automatically generated.

And there is no point in having drivers here because this is a point-to-point interface. It is not memory mapped. That means the processor cannot directly access your IP through software. So there is no concept of driver here at all. Okay. Once you have done this much, that's it. You can close this project and we can open a new
