Hello all, welcome back. In the last video we have already created an AXI stream IP core which does the inversion operation So in this video we will try to build a complete system which uses this inverter And we'll try to integrate it with the AXI DMA controller. So I'm starting a new project and I'm not keeping it inside IP core somewhere outside Let's call DMA system. So the first step is to configure your IP repository so that we can use that DMA or DMA, the inverter in this project go to IP repository and add the part to your repository which is this one. Select, okay now create a block design processing system automation.

OK, now let's add our IP which is inverter and you will notice the connection automation option is not coming because there is no way to directly connect this stream interface with the GV port here. Because this is memory mapped, this is stream based, there is no address so that's why that option is not coming, but you can notice like our AXIStream slave interface is here and AXIStream master interface is here. So let's add the DMA controller. So I'm searching for DMA and there are many DMA's actually. The one we are going to use is this one, XE direct memory access.

Once you add it, we have the connection automation option. Okay so let's do it. So when I do connection automation, okay, the option is to connect the AXI-Lite interface of the DMA controller with the GP port of the processor. So basically he's saying like he can connect this interface, AXI-lite with the GP Port and remember this interface is used for configuring the DMA Controller from the processor. OK, so let's do that and it is done. You can see from the processor GP it goes to the interconnect, from it goes to Xilite. That's it! You cannot see any other option to connect any other interfaces.

It doesn't happen automatically, so maybe some of them you have to do manually. So remember this interface, M-AXI memory mapped to stream. This is the interface through which the stream data, notice is AXI, when it's AXIS, M-ACSIS, this one, memory map to stream. This is the stream interface through which the data read from the memory will come out. So this interface should be connected to the slave stream interface of our inverter. So you can see the signals here, there is data valid ready. In addition to that, there are two more signals called last and keep. These are option signals.

Our IP doesn't have these two signals but it is perfectly fine since they are optional so you have to manually connect them like this. Same way, UMR interface should be connected to S-AXI-S2M interface, stream to memory map. Okay, we connect that. Now there are a few more things we need to see. So in the lower part... So, at some point you might have noticed we had only five interfaces. Two to the memory, two to the IP stream interface and one light. But here you can see more interfaces there is something called S-axis STS here, M-axis SG here.

So if you double click your IP, you will see an option here, Enable Scattergather Engine. This is an advanced feature in DMA we haven't discussed it what is Scattergother based DMA. So that is more complicated stuff so we don't want to use it now. So you uncheck this option and check OK. So those two interfaces goes away and now we are left with five interfaces out of five We have already connected 3, we have connected both stream interface and the light interface. The only one left is these two master interfaces which are AXI which are supposed to go to the memory external memory video.

Now the connection automation option is there let me check it. He's basically saying he can connect your AXI clock of your IP okay so that AXI clock gets connected now this reset remember we are not using it entirely. But still let's connect it, so connect that reset to this reset signal. AR resetting, this is the AXI reset signal, so connect it there even if we are not using it internally. Okay, now these two, now remember again in the PowerPoint I mentioned these two are master interfaces So this should be connected to the external memory either through the GP port or the HP port and we prefer HP port. And by default, the HP port is not listed here for Zynq. That's why

you don't see the connection automation option. So you should go ahead double click ZYNC and go to PSPL configuration and here is the HP, under this is your GP, this is your HP so we have 4 HP ports and let's enable one of them. You can either 1 or you can enable 2 up to you. If you are enabling 1 both the masters will be connected to the same slave HP port or if you enable to, you can connect these two to two different HP ports. But for the time being, one HP is enough. Now once you add that HP port, it is this one, HP port, this one, S-AXI-HP0.

The connection automation option comes up so click it. So he's saying the HP port can be connected to AXI-DMA controller. OK, so let's do it. And it gets connected. Again, run connection automation. This is for connecting the next master interface. OK? And that's also connected. So let's see what just happened. So this was the DMA controller and these are the two master AXI interfaces. They are actually connected to an AXI interconnect, which is similar to the AXI Interconnect here, which is used for connecting to the DMA controller to the processor through the GP port. It is similar but this one is called AXI Smart Connect.

What it basically does is it arbitrates between these two interfaces because you have two master interfaces here but you have only one HV port so you need a bus arbitration and you need to decide like who is going to access this interface at a given point of time. Okay, so that's why he instantiated this one. So this is more like an arbitrator and then it is connected to the HP port. That's it! So that's all our system. We have the DMA controller here, we have the stream IP here, we have the processor here, we have one interconnect here for the DMA controller, light interface.

We have another interconnect here, for the two AXI4-Fool master interfaces. Now if you go to address editor, you can see interesting things. So previously you can see only one thing listed here, the processor system because that was the only mastering your system. Now you can see two things are listed because you had two masters, so processor as well So, under the processor you can see the memory mapping, so XCDMA signal. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, VDMA, UART, ILA, ILA. Total, 512MB. Now this address range is actually the address range for your external DDR. So the external DDR always starts from address 0 and all the way up to how much memory you

have in your system on ZedBoard you have 512MB DDR so that's why this is given 512MB here. So if the DMA controller reads or writes between the address 00, 00 to 1, FFFFFFF, that will go to the HP port and it will eventually go to the DDA, external DDA through this DDA interface and you'll be able to read and write. and you'll notice like both of them, both the interfaces are mapped to the same range because both the interfaces, are going to access the same DDA. Okay so don't change this value. Now the interesting question is whether the processor can access the DDA? Yes the processor can also access the DDR if the processor reads all right within this range that will also go

to the DDR, but it is not listed in this address editor. But if you go to our SDK and look at the system.hdf file, the file that you are going to export from Vivado, in that you can see the address range for every peripheral in the system and in that it will be listed for the processor also, the address range for the DDR is this one okay? So that arbitration between this HP port and the actual processor is done by the internal DDR controller which you have seen in the previous presentation. So now save your block design. Now one thing that I would like to mention here is again about debugging.

So in couple of videos back I have shown you how to do in-system debugging by synthesizing your code and inserting the ILA core, Integrated Logic Analyzer. Okay so in that case again remember you have to keep some signals using the KEEP attribute then you will synthesize it and in the NETLIST you will choose which signals you want to deepen. Now if you are using block design and if you want to see the signals which are going through these AXI interfaces, it is actually much easier. If you want to any of the internal signal inside any of this IP, you have to follow the same step that we did before.

In your IP source code you have to do the keypad review then you have to synthesize then you have insert the debug. But if you want, just want to see the interfaces, how data is going through the interfaces, it is much easier. What you have to do is, you click the interface which you want to see in real time and right click And there's an option Debug here, so you click it and you can see two small bugs come here. So in real time when you run it on the chip, you can see how data is USB, USB interface. So remember this interface is a multiplex to one between these two. So basically your DMA controller can either read from the memory or write from the memory at

a given point in time which is controlled by this one. So once you add this debug option he will again see this connection automation you have to run it so what happens is he will Add the integrated logicalizer, ILA as a block, So, we have to check all of them. So that all of them are connected for debugging. Okay? So this is the ILA core system ILA and you can see all those XC signals are connected to this IP core. So during runtime we will be able to access this IP core through the JTAG interface and you'll be able to see all these signals in real time.

So that's it, you now save your core block design, you synthesize it and you can export to SDK and start writing the software or you can go all the way until bitstream generation then you can start the SDK whatever you prefer. You don't have to do any pin assignment here because as you notice the only pins going out of your system are DDR and this fixed IELTS, and these are automatically constrained when you do run block automation. So you don't have any pin assignments, you can directly go to the bitstream generation.

Ok so software, I will make it as a separate video and see you soon.
