Hello all welcome back. So in the previous tutorial we have completed the hardware design. We designed a system using the XUDMA and we have a peripheral which can accept streaming data and which can stream data back so that part we have completed. I have generated the complete bitstream, you can do it offline. First generate a HDL wrapper then you go ahead and generate bitstreams. So after this I am starting my software development. So as first step, I'm exporting hardware. This time I'm not including bitstream because I'm planning to program from Vivado because I have a debug code inside so I would like to see the waveform in real-time.

So I'm going to use Vivado to program as well as to view those signals. I am not checking this, but you can check it, it doesn't matter. So exporting hardware to SDK, I am launching SDK. Okay, so SDK opens and this is our System.HDA file, the exported file. So this is what I was mentioning before. You can see a lot of peripherals here which are not in your design in Vivado. So in fact these are the peripherals, most of them have the peripherals inside the PS part. OK, so even for processor all the peripherals inside the PS part they are memory map.

You can see your DMA controller is here, the Xilite one, so this is the memory map for that you can definitely see here, this one. OK, so here you can see only the memory map from the processor's point of view. So if you see here you can say PS7 DDR0 OK, so this is the DDR memory from the processor point of view. So if you notice here, address 0 is not mapped to the DDR from the processor pointer view. From processor pointer view, DDR starts on this address till this address and it's slightly less than 512MB because address 0 is actually mapped to PS7 RAM 0 and PS7 RAM 1. These are internal on-chip memory, so if you look at the ZYNC architecture here, you can see like 256 KB on-chip memories. So it has some RAM

within PS itself that is what is this okay? So if processor is reading and writing from address 0 is in fact reading and writing from this internal memory, not from the DDR. For processor, DDR starts from this address only. Okay? So initial few bytes in DDR are not accessed by the processor but from your DMA controller you can access even from address zero so it this will We will have some implications which we will see while coding. Okay, so as usual next step is go new application project, let me call it DMA control or DMA test whatever you prefer and next an empty application.

OK, so we'll go to source and we'll start a new source file and call it DMA-Test.C Now where to start? So in the previous project we actually started from a driver because we had our own IP core so we developed a drive for the IP core then within the main function Now here we have an IP core which is a stream peripheral but as I mentioned before you cannot directly read or write from that peripheral because it is not directly connected to the processor. So you can access that peripheral only through the DMA controller, you are going to use the DMA Controller to send and receive data from this peripheral.

So basically you need... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA‐Lite, XS with the driver. So Xilinx themselves give the driver for all their peripheral and where those drivers are stored, they are actually stored in this BSP folder. So basically BSP or board support package is nothing but it's the collection of all the drivers that Xilinx provides to you. So if you add a Xilinx IP core to your project, the corresponding driver for that IP will be automatically included in this BSP, port support package. So if you expand this you will see many folders are there the one which is most interesting is this include folder and there you can see a lot of header files are there and most of them corresponds to the header

file for the drivers and if I come here I can see something called X-AXI-DMA.H, okay? So this is the driver for the Xilinx DMA controller, this is the driver AP for the XC-DMA engine. This came here because you are using a DMA controller in your design so SDK automatically or V1 automatically SoC finds it out, so you automatically export it to this PSP folder. Okay? So that's a good thing. Now maybe not so good thing is unlike our hardware user documentation, the documentation for the drivers is not that great for Xilinx.

Okay? So many times you won't find any documentation at all like the details about what are the functions in the driver, how to use them. Very detailed user guide are not available, mostly all the details are available in the source code itself. So you will have to read the source code and understand what the functions are, how to use them etc. Still sometimes it is not clear to us so that we'll have to develop based on experience okay because their drivers they follow a certain style always. We have tried to adopt that style when we wrote

So we'll include that driver. Now let's see how to use it. I'm not reading all the comments here. You can go ahead and read. You can see all the changes they have made all the year to fix the bugs and to improve it. So all the way from 2010 to 2075. All the way from 2010 to 2017. I'm using SDK 2017 but already 2019 versions are available, even 2020 is available I guess so there might be more changes. Anyway, inside this you can see The structure, okay? So we also try to use the same architecture when we wrote the driver.

So this is XIDMA, XXIDMA driver instance that must be allocated to each DMA. Okay, so the same way that we did, this is a structure which stores all the important information about IP, In addition to that they have one more structure, so they have another structure which stores again some part of important information about the IP. So Xilinx they mostly do it using two structures, one structure to represent the hardware and one structure to represent the configuration. Okay? Mostly that... SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, ILA, ILA.

I haven't covered yet. The interesting ones that we are going to use is towards the end. Okay, so here you can see two functions, XXDMA-config and XXDMA config initialize. So this is the initialization function for DMA similar to the initialization function that we wrote. But this function it takes two parameters one is a pointer to the DMA controller structure same as we did before and another one is a pointer to this config structure, okay so this is slightly different. So we used to pass the pointer to the IP as well as the base address directly but here they want the pointer and a pointer to another structure. So the base address that is actually stored in

Another structure, that structure has to be passed here. And that structure is this one, XXDMA-Config, which we need. So here, XXDMI-Config. This is that structure. This is the structure representing the heart. Okay so for initialization we need two things. This is straightforward. We can declare a structure, create a variable from that and pass the address here. This one we need to pass this structure, pointer to a structure with the configuration information. Now that structure pointer is generated using either this function or this function.

You can use either of them. The difference is if you use this function you have to pass so-called the device ID to the function. If you are using this function, you have to pass the base address to this one. So let's use this second one because in our drivers also we use the base address for initialization. So look at the function. The name of the function is this one, X-Axi-DMA lookup config base address and here you can see it is return X-Axis-DMA config star. That means this function is So, let's use this one using the base address.

Let's bring it. So this is the function now base address. Now we have to write a function called base address. So I'm going to write a point of this type. So I'm just going to write something equal to this function. So this is the function, now base address mistake is in our X parameters, XIDMA, okay so this is the device ID. If you are using the other function you have to pass this one, DMA device ID if you're using this function, if you're using this function you have to pass the device ID which is this one, X4XIDMA0 device ID.

If you are using the second function, you have to use the base address. So we are using the 2nd function so let me pass the base address to the function and what the function returned? It returns a pointer of X-AXI DMA config type. So we need to declare a pointer, myDMAConfig or something. So I am directly declaring it as a pointer and I will say this equal to this. So this should be a pointer type because the function returns a pointer of this type. Now second one is we need to use the initialization function, this function.

Okay so the first parameter to the function should be a point of type X-axis DMA. So we need to declare X-axis-DMA, myDMA it's a variable of type this structure. So we need to pass its address because he is expecting a pointer. The second one is expecting a point to the config. Now we already have it, this one. So here don't put ampersand because you are supposed to pass a pointer here and this itself is a pointer. You declared it as a pointer directly, so it doesn't make sense to put ampersands here. The meaning totally changes. Okay fine. So save it no errors.

So most of the Xilinx drivers they look like this. They'll have two structures. One structure for configuration and one structure which actually represents the hardware So first you need to write this pointer equal to some lookup config using the base address, then that pointer and a pointer to IP has to be passed to the initialisation function. Okay so that's it. Now we can actually do some data transfer. So there are a lot of functions here. DMA reset to reset the DMA controller, DMA reset is done function to check whether the reset is done or not. So a lot of functions are there so the one to check whether DMA controller is PC already in transmitting some data so things like that. So the one we are interested

is this one, X-AXI-DMA simple transfer okay so this is the function used for Data Transfer, Simple Data Transfer which means it is not using the advanced feature like the scatter gather. Okay so that's the function so this takes these many parameters so the first parameter is the pointer to the DMA controller so which we already have ampersand DMA. The second one is okay you can read you can press F3 here so you can go to the function so they I have written what each parameter is. Second one is a pointer to a buffer or the second one is a pointer to a memory from where data is either read or to where the data is written, okay? So that depends upon the direction of data transfer if you are transferring from memory to your peripheral

You should give the address of the memory from where data has to be transferred to the starting address. If you are transferring from your peripheral to the memory, you need to give the address of the memory where the received data has to be stored. Okay? So in both cases this is an address. So the type is UInt pointer, unsigned integer pointer buffer address. OK, so our plan is to send something to the peripheral and get what our peripheral is sending back. OK? So that's our plan. So I'm going to send some data to the peripheral.

So first of all we need to store some data in the memory and send that data to the peripherals. So I will store some data into the memory and the starting address of that data I will pass here. Now, how to store data in memory? So remember when you declare any variable in your code, that variable is stored in the DDR, based on some settings actually of course. But by default as per the current setting, you declare any variables that variable is stored in the DR, okay. So if you want to store some array of data, okay.

So let me make an array of data, I'm making an array of unsigned 32 bit data. So I can say like that U32A and let me store some data 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 I have stored eight data to an array A so in C if you are initializing the array directly you don't have to specify the size here or you declare an array with a size then initialize it later whatever you prefer. So basically I have eight data each of them 32 bit okay now i want to send this data to my ip through the DMA so i need to give the starting address of this data to my Symbol-AXI transfer function. So you can just write A, okay? So the name of that A will represent the address of the first element.

You can either write like this or you can explicitly write something like this which represents addresses, A better way is to write something like this, size of U32. Because sometimes you don't know how much memory is taken by some data type. Okay? For example, integer, we usually say it takes four bytes but not on all systems, some system integer is two bytes. So if you're not sure how much memory it is taking, better to use this built-in function, size of function. So size of U 32 will tell me How many bytes are used for storing a data of size 32?

Okay, now I have to send 8 elements. So you can say 8 times. I'm directly writing 8 times or another way is you can type size of A which tell me the total size of the array divided by size of U32, which is the data type of A. That should also return 8 anyway. Now last one is the direction in which you want to transfer whether you are transferred from memory to the peripheral or peripheral to the memory okay so that takes either this value XXDMA to device this means you want to translate to the device from the memory or DMA device to DMA you want We want to transfer from device to the memory.

Okay, we want to transfer first at least. My plan is to transfer from memory to device so I'm going to use this parameter. This parameter. So this is just a parameter declaratory if I press F3 basically X-axis, UMA, device is basically zero. X-axis and UMA, Device to DMA is one. They just defined it as constant zero. So, saved some warning is there. He's saying, passing argument 2 of X-axis DMA, symbol transfer makes integer from pointer without a cost. So he is expecting this as an unsigned integer. and we are passing a pointer there, but things will work fine. Those who are perfectionists, you can use a typecasting here something like this. So those who haven't seen typecasting,

you need to go ahead and search, find out what is typecasting or C++ typecasting. Even if you don't have it, it is perfectly fine because A represents a pointer to the first element which is the starting address of your data. Fine, few more things we need to add. One thing is if you look at this function, this function returns some value okay, it returns a U32 value and depending upon that value you can find out whether the DMA transfer SoC, 8MB, you cannot transfer more than 8MB in one shot. So that restriction is there.

By looking at the return value, you can find out what exactly is happening with the DMA controller. To find it out, I will say U32 status or something and I will say status equals this one and I can check the status to see whether it was successful or not. So if status is, what Return type is success, so I can say status is not equal to success, I can print the image Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPF, ILA‐SPF, The same thing is true for this initialization also, actually if you see, int, it returns success if successful initialization and I errors if it cannot.

So I can do the same thing here also status equal to this one and DMA initialization failed or I will print DMA initialization, Success, this is test string so print is enough and we put some new line character. Now again don't worry about this XSD Success and all if you press F3 you'll see like XSD Success is nothing but the number zero and XSD fail is nothing but terminal of SDK. So, SDK comes with a serial terminal I haven't shown you before this guy comes with a CD terminal at the bottom here you have SDK terminal here if you press plus here after connecting your board of course the screen looks similar to our Tora term so you can choose which port I guess mine is seven okay connected

to COM7, Now you don't need a lot of them actually, you can see everything on this roman itself. Okay now I need to program and I need to set up run configuration so let me do run configuration, standalone, I don't have program FPGA here because I didn't export the bitstream, so check these two options, apply close and now let me program my board from Vivado, so we'll say Program Device and you will see two files the Bit file which is the actual programming file and the LTX file which basically has the information about the debug signals okay so we need both because we have debug core this time. So we program it and you will see a warning here he's saying like debug core was not found and he's giving

The reason also why he cannot find it. One reason could be there is no clock coming to the diva code. Now remember, the clock to your entire system is provided by the PS, the processing system. And when you power on your board for first time, the processing system is not going to give the clock because he needs some certain configuration before he So, those configurations are actually available from this PS init. So, this is a some kind of script, some kind of function automatically run when you do your run configuration.

So only after the script runs, he will start giving the clock. Only after that, you'll be able to see the clock signals there. So don't worry now. What you should do is OK, run configuration. You run it once. OK? Make sure application is also checked. OK. Run it once and let's see SDK terminal. He's saying like DMA initialization success, DMA transcess success. OK, so yes, supposed to put this here. OK, so he's saying like successfully initialized and successfully transmitted now you So, we can actually see it in real time using the debug. Okay, come back here and do a refresh because now the clock is coming from the PS, he should be able to detect the debug core

and you can see the debug core here means signal from the debug core, a lot of them and they are actually grouped together and these are nothing but the AXI interfaces UART for debugging, OK? So this is the master interface stream. That's why we use the AXI. This is the AXI stream interface coming out of your IP. This is that AXI interface, master interface from the DMA controller. That means this is a stream interface going into your IP. OK? This is the output of the smart connect interface going to the HV port and these are the two master interface from the DMA controller, one for writing to memory and one for reading from the memory.

Now as before you need to do a trigger setup basically you need to say when to capture data under what condition he should catch data what I'm interested is I want to catch data VITA, VIN, Let's say you can choose whatever you want. If you are not familiar with AXI interfaces, you cannot use these two but we are familiar with AXISTream interface. So let me say when the DMA controller starts giving data to my IP I want to capture the data. So basically You want to say when this T-valid signal goes high, that is when you want to see the data.

What is happening in the sensor chip? So you go to the trigger and here you need to choose this signal, T-valid coming from slot 1. So slot1T-valid, this one right, AXI, DMA, zero, M-axis, MM2S, T-valued. So this is the valid signal coming from the DMA controller to your IP. Okay, and you need to set the value here when that signal goes rising 0 to 1. That is when the valid data is coming you want to capture and here under settings you need to say the trigger position You're basically saying how much data he should capture before this condition happens How much data he needs to capture after this condition happens The total data is only 1024.

So let's say I need to capture something like 512, means I will see 512 clock cycle before this condition, 512 clock cycle after this condition. That's it. So once you have set these, you can arm your VADIVA core, click this one. Now he's waiting for trigger, he's waiting this condition to happen. Come back to SDK and rerun your code so that same thing happens, the transmission happens again. Okay, initialization everything done and if you come back here he went back to idle that means that condition happened where that condition happened? Where all this blood line is?

This is showing this is where the trigger happened okay this is where The condition happened and you cannot see continuous waves here because Xilinx they have done very intelligently. You can see some green signals here, so he's basically saying these are the points where interesting things are happening and other places interesting things are not happening but if you expand this interfaces you can see individual signals. Vitis, for example, yeah we said like I want to see where the valid became high. Okay so come here and let's see what is actually happening. Okay so here it is, here the valid signal went high okay and here is the data coming and here is DMA controller, DMA controller and

We wanted to transfer eight data and see how much data is there. So valid data transfer happens only when valid and ready both are high so you can see valid became high here, ready is high that means There is a valid data transfer here, here, here and here. So basically we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. After 5 data transfers the ready became low. This ready is given by you. Okay so you are saying you are not ready to accept any more data. To the DMA controller but he's saying he still has valid data But you are not ready to accept it, okay? And you will never become ready again. It's always slow.

Now remember when you will say you are not ready, you will say, you are not really when your master says he is not ready. Okay so example come down here this is your master interface. So one clock latency between your input valid and your output valid which is correct. So you place data here, here 1, 2, 3, 4 and the ready signal to you became new okay so who is giving ready signal to you? The DMA controller okay so the DMA controller is saying he's no longer ready to accept data from you okay so why it is happening?

It is happening because in your software you wrote the code to transfer data from memory to the peripheral, but you didn't write the code for transferring from peripheral to the memory. Okay? So the DMA controller has some internal memory. So, from the signal I can see he has a total of 4 times 32 bit. That is his internal memory. When you started giving data to the DMA controller, he is accepting it but once you gave four data, His internal buffer got full, his internal memory got full. Now if he wants to accept more data, his data has to be sent to the memory. For that you need to call that function from the software but you have in court. So he's not able to transfer the data

received from you to the memory, his internal memories is full so he can no longer accept, He told you I can no longer accept, since he told he no longer can accept You are also saying I can no longer accept. Okay, so this is a dot-log scenario. The second problem here is our IP is actually violating the conditions for XSCTreme interface. Okay, So look here which is the input stream interface to you So the DMA controller made the T-valid high here, and he is placing data here, your ready signal is high, Here you de-asserted the ready signal, but he hasn't finished sending data.

So he's keeping the next data here, and He is keeping the valid signal high. Okay? This is what the AXI protocol says. If a slave doesn't accept data, The master should keep the data on the bus and keep the valid signal asserted. OK, so the DMA controller is doing it properly. Now look at the stream interface from our IP. OK, so we made the valid high here. We sent one, two, three, four data. After four data, T-ready went low. OK, so this data is not accepted by the slave. So our valid was high here, but on the next clock, our valid became low, which is not true.

The ready signal is low. I still have a valid data, so our IP is supposed to keep this valid high until the slave accepts that valid data. So this is happening because of a slight issue in our IP coding. So if I look at our IP source code, the condition for M valid is given as this one. Okay? So we wrote I will say I have valid data if I have an input valid data as well as I am ready to accept that data. Okay, and I am ready too accept the data if my slave is ready to accept this data. So currently what is happening is this signal became low which caused this signal to low which caused my M-axis value to go low.

Okay, so this is violating the stream condition. So this condition is actually... So this should say that ‐‐ solve that issue. Now, if I save my code, I will have to go to the block diagram, update my IP and the synthesis goes through all the steps to regenerate the bit stream. Okay? So that we can do later but this should be solving that problem. So this issue actually came because we didn't simulate our IP so that's why we should simulate it and make sure all the conditions are taken care of before packaging and using

So we are getting it, but we skipped that step. So I guess that is why we had this problem. Okay, but anyway, this should be solving the problem. Now the third and maybe one of the most important problem is the data that you are getting through the AXI interface has no relation with the data that So, what data we are sending? We are actually sending 12345678. But what we are getting is this. F2-3DFFA, FAF62E, some random data we are getting. So there is no relation between the data that we are sending and the data that we are actually receiving.

So while this is happening, I will explain shortly. So we will solve each problem one by one. So the first probably second problem is actually solved. Once I generate bitstream, this issue will go away. Me not confirming to AXIStream. This signal will remain high because this signal is high. So that's what I wrote. Output valid is 1 clock delayed version of the input value. So this will go high. So that will solve the problem. So let's try to solve our first problem. The problem was I'm not able to accept all the data because the data I am sending out is not being accepted by the DMA controller because his internal memory is full. Now one thing that I would like to add here is what this XSIMPLE transfer function

actually does, okay? So this function configures the internal register of the DMA controller, with from where he needs to data how much data he needs to send etc. but this function doesn't wait until that entire data is sent out okay so that's why when you run the code we get the message DMA transfer success although he hasn't completely sent out all the data okay it's coming because he's not So this print is likely misleading. So instead of DMA transfer success, it is more like DMA configured successfully not transferred successfully. Now how do you know whether the transfer is completed or not? So again there are two ways as I mentioned before either we can go for

polling method, we can keep on reading the status register to check whether it is completed So, if I check XCDMA.h file to see if there are any functions available for polling, I can see this except CDMABC function to check whether a channel is busy or not. But unfortunately, these functions works properly only if you're using scan and error. So, let's go back to and then you can do that together, model for pressure. It doesn't work for this single simple data transfer. Okay so how do I do it? I have tested it before that, so I'll do it.

So what you need to do is You have to go to the user manual and you need to check the register details in the user manual. So this is the user manual for the XSCT-MA controller, you can download it from Net. And here if you look at the register map these are the registers there is a separate set of registers for memory to device, there is a seperate set for device to memory so This is a set of registers for memory map to stream. That means the memory to the device. So here, if I come to this register, MMP2S-DMA status register, offset 4.

This is the register for checking the status. So here you can see two bits out there. So the zero bit is called halted. So it basically tells you whether the DMA controller has stopped or not, or whether it is currently running or not. And this bit, it shows you whether the controller is idle or not. Now this idle bit makes sense only when you're actually using this category. If you are using simple data transfer, it is better to check, or you have to check this bit whether DMA controller is halted or not, whether it is stopped or not.

And you can see like by default, it is what that means when you start the system if you check this bit, You'll find that the DMA controller is halted. He's not doing anything. So this is one way of checking whether the transfer is completed or not, because once you start a transfer, this bit will become zero. That means he's not halted. And once the transfer is complete, this bit will be come one saying like he has finished transfer. Okay? So let's try whether it is really working. So this register is at offset four from the base address.

So let me write a separate function to do it. OK, so maybe we'll write it in the same file. Later we can move it into a different file. So let me say U32, check Halt-Tat. So that's the function I'm going to use. I will pass two parameters. Of course you need to know the base address and the offset address. So offset address is always for, for memory to device, for device to memory there's a separate register. Ok so let's write a single function and let's pass all the parameters here. So let me write U32 base address I will pass here, U32 offset I will pass and I will return the current condition. So how can I do? I can do OK, I can declare U32 status and I can write status is equal to silt in 32, base address plus this offset. So let's

Check the condition before we start a data transfer. So let me again write here status equal to check call. And the base address is the base address of our DMA controller and the offset is 0x4 from the data sheet. Okay, so I am checking and let me print also. So, Printer, status, V4, DATATR, TRANSUR, POCAP, SDX0-X, XSML, and status. After that I am calling this function to data transfer. Let's do something, let's wait for some time so that if he finishes data transfer let him finish. So I'm just waiting for some time, Sleep1, that means I'm waiting for one second. So I need to include hash, include sleep.h and after one second let me check the status once again and let's say like this so this screen doesn't

make sense now let's comment it out status ress, okay same I'm reading the status once again I'm checking OK, variable status, reset but not use here, we need to return this, return status and this function we need to declare at the top. So let's declare here, U32, again syntax error, okay, we need semicolon here, okay everything looks fine so first I am checking The status register, then I am transferring the data. I initialize the data transfer and I wait for one second. And I can check the status. So if the data transfer is finished in both cases I should see the DMA controller is in halted state.

If he's still transferring data here I should see he's in halted state before I transfer the data and here I should see he is in running state, means he's not in hold-up state. Okay so let's try running it okay and you can see the status register status before data transfer 1 that means this bit is one which is true status okay this should be after data transfer So after data transfer it is showing 1002, it's showing the content of this entire register. It's a 32-bit register Okay, and it's showing that entire content but from the value you can see it is 2 That means This bit is 0, this bit is 1. He's not in halted state Okay, he is still in running state means he hasn't finished data transfer. Why?

because Our previous discussion we have already discussed, so my IP is no longer accepting data. So he's not able to finish the data transfer. So that's the problem. Okay, so let's start a new line here and new line here. And let me do one thing. So here you can see He showing the content of the n32 bit but I'm interested only in this last bit Okay, only in last bit. So my function should be returning only this bit So basically I will say I need to mask all other bits and I need to get value of only this bit. So what you should do, you can easily do it with an AND operation.

So you run this function so whatever data that function is returning you AND it with 1. So every bit except the last bit will become 0. The last bit will be 1 or 0 depending upon what value is returned. OK, so you can write like this or there is a nicer way of doing it. So if you go to this header file, he's using a header file called, let me see, I can find it, there should be XIDMA, OK, so these masks and all. So he has a function here where he is showing all the bit positions, see, XXA, Halter mask 1, Ideal mask 2 etc.

So it may look better instead of directly writing one here you write something like this, okay? So just for cosmetic purpose so people who are reading they can immediately find out okay So this is the function for masking the halter. Same way, if you go here, you have this function called X-AXI-DMA-R etc. Instead of using Zilinx here directly, you can use XAC, CDMA, Rachri and arguments are exactly same again just for cosmetic purpose. The error is there. Base address plus offset gets extra. Okay, just for cosmetic purposes.

So let's run it once more and see. and you can see status before data transfer. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, UART, ILA, UART. So, VIPIN Kizheppe, UART-on-Chip, UART‐TRA, UART “ Developed, XSct, UART”, UART—UART‐TURK, You need to enable the XC-DMA receive part first so that the DMA controller starts accepting data from you and he doesn't block your IP from giving the DMA Controller data. So, the DMA controller keeps on accepting data so that your IP can keep on accepting data from the DMA controller. So here what we need to do is, we need to call X-AXI-DMA simple transfer device to DMA first okay? Device to DMA. So you started, you are ready to accept data now then you are transferring data to DMA controller and now let's see

Now here, ok so here we need to change this. This is the address of the buffer where the received data should be stored. So if you keep A here itself, so what are memory? So you are storing this in memory that memory will be all returned by the received data. So maybe you don't want to do it or sometimes you want to do a depends okay so if you don't one that to happen if you want to store the So, that means he was able to completely transmit the dot. OK? So, he might have transmitted, he might receive. Now actually, let's make our code better.

We don't want to wait for one second. We need to do it. Finish our program as soon as possible. What we can do is, I will do like this. And I need to actually check Other way also, the status of reception. That should be also inherited. So if you go back to data sheet, if you come to address 34 offset address 34, 38, 34. This is the status register for sending from device to memory. Okay? So all the bits will look exactly same, but this is in the opposite direction. So both channels should be ideal, halted, so that I can say with confidence that my data transfer has finished.

So this should be finished as well as the other one should be also finished. So here I will say like while status not equal to one, I will stay here. That means I make sure this data transfer is successful. After that, I will read the status from the other status register. 34 is the offset address, 34 is the Offset address, and I will wait until that bit also becomes 1. Okay, so 3434 here also, 443434. Now if once this much is over, I can say with confidence that my data transfer is complete. Going to make him happy. No, semicolon curly bracket. Okay so this is the polling part. You are waiting for the status register to become one here after that you are waiting here for the other status register to

become one and this should make sure that the DMA is completely trans. Okay so let me run once more. Run, OK, and now he's saying DMA transverse access. That means both status registers became one. Now if I really want to say with 100% confidence at this point of time, I can go back to my debug and see in real-time whether the data is getting transferred. OK so let me arm the debug core once more and run it from here. OK, OK, it is triggered and I can see here MM2S. So previously remember you were transmitting only 5 data of all data but now let's see here this is the output from, no this is from the XC, DMA, M, OK, this is the input to your IP. And here you can see how many data are getting

transmitted so we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 all eight data so this is the varied signal and this is one of the additional AXI-Stream signal which I said is optional last so this signal will become high when the last data is transmitted. So you can see on the eighth data that is also coming right now where was our IP this one stream is the data going out of our IP again you can see the data and where it is here 12345678 so I'm able to send a and then for ADAT. Makes sense. Now again, let's do one more thing so you can see the data going is not matching with the data in my software we will solve it soon but some data is going I can see and I can see here some data is out of my IP which should be 255 minus byte by byte.

Okay now let's see whether this is really coming to the system memory whether it is The received data is stored in B here. So let's try to print B so that I can see whether the data sent by my IP is the one coming to the system memory. So I can do for I is declared to OK in I equal to 0, I less than 8, I plus OK, so print of let's print in hexadecimal because these are big numbers B of I So what am I expected to see? I should be seeing these numbers when I print. So let me trigger here one second and run the software.

And these are the numbers that I'm getting here, 5C609041, DC00 And if I come back here, that's exactly the numbers going out. and these numbers each time can change okay so that's why you have to trigger here each time before you see the output in software to check whether data is matching or not. So here you can see it is 5C60-9041 then this value goes down Then the value becomes high again and it is this one DC00001, DC00001 etc. So it's matching. So what our data is sent by my IP is coming to a system memory. Now let's try to solve All the last problem, the data that...

So, the data is coming to my IP here. It's not at all matching with the data I'm sending from software. So the data I am sending from software is 12345678, but the data coming here looks quite random each time also it may change. Okay? So what is it? So to understand that we need some background from computer architecture. So if you look at our ZYNC system architecture, you can see there is a cache memory sitting in between the processor and the external media. Actually, there are two cache memories. There is a cache inside the processor core, which we call as the level one cache.

And that itself is divided into two, D cache and I cache, instruction cache, which will store the instructions and the data cache which will store the data. Then there is a level 2 cache, which is common for both the cores so that's a vital KB cache then it is the external media now remember any data that you are writing from the processor might not immediately get stored in the external memory first it will get stored in The cache and at some point in time that data from the cache will get transferred to the memory okay so that depends upon some algorithm.

Now here what is happening, that is exactly what is happening here. So you created an array here. Now the system will calculate the address in the RAM where it should be stored, external DDR, but it might not immediately transfer this data to the DDR. Instead, it will store it in the cache memory. Okay? And later it will get transferred. But currently what is happening so that is sitting In the cache, either in the Intel cache or in the level 2 cache, it hasn't reached the DDR. What you're trying to do? You're trying to transfer data from DDR to the peripheral in PL.

So what you are actually transferring is the current data in DDR and it is not updated with this new data. So what you will have to do is, you will have force the processor to do something called cache flashing or invalidating the cache. You should force the processor update this data to the memory so that when you try to transfer data from the memory you get the updated data. For that you need to use this function, ZILDCASHFLASHRANGE. So this is the function. So it is a D-cache because your data, this data will be stored in the data cache, not in the instruction cache.

So this function F3 is stored in silcache.c. OK, so you need to include, hash, include silcache.h This header file, now this function takes two parameters the starting address From where he should update the Lydia and how much data he should update So what is a starting address? The starting address is the starting address of this array Where he's planning to store it and how much that I want to update The amount of data you are planning to send so this much data Okay And again there is a warning OK, he is expecting this to be a 32-bit unsigned so you can do a typecasting if you wish, otherwise also it is fine.

So what is happening? You are doing a cache flash, so this data will be updated to the DDR from the cache memory. So when you transfer data from DDR to your peripheral now, it should be this updated data. Let's try it, so let me trigger it once again and run my software once again. OK, let's see what is coming out. OK, so let's look at the waveform now. And this is the waveform you can see. This is the data coming from the master and you can see first data is 1, second data is 2, 3, 4, 5 etc. The data coming out of your IP is FFFFV, so only the last byte is 1.

So this one will be FE everything else is FF and FDFC so on and so forth. If I come back here and if I check here also it is updated except the first data I don't know why it is happening when I run it first time but if I run once more everything looks FFFFEDC, DCB, So, this is the data you are getting here. So, this cache updating you have to do if the data is provided by the processor. Suppose, instead of that in your system you have some other peripheral say a camera and you are sending data from the camera to the DDR directly and from DDR you are sending it to your IP.

Suppose if that is the case you don't have to do this cache rush because data is not coming from the processor, data is coming from the camera so it will directly go to the DDR. This cache in between comes only if the data is generated by the processor. So keep that in mind. So we have learned a few things, so I hope this will help you in doing your project also. Thank you, so we'll see in the next video.
