Hello all, welcome to our next video tutorial. So in this video I'm going to discuss how can you transfer data from your computer to our ZedBoard? Okay so in the previous tutorials we have seen how you can give data through your slide switches and push buttons. So these things work as long as the data required is quite small. Now assume you need to do some big data processing like image processing or video processing. In that case it becomes Z-Board is impossible to give data through these interfaces. ZedBoard comes with many interfaces through which you can give data, maybe one of the most preferred one is the Ethernet interface through which you could give data. It also comes with an USB OTG interface through which

also you can give or you can interface something with this P-mode interfaces through which EDC, EDC, DSC, EDC kind of thing you can interface with FMC connector and you can get through that but today we are attempting to give data from a computer so usually we do it through the Ethernet or USB interfaces now unfortunately the USB interface on ZedBoard it has some problems so they recommend not to use this USB interface so we are left only with Ethernet interface. Now using Ethernet interface is quite complex actually.

Using it from our standalone operating system makes it much complicated. If we were running Linux on ZYNC, things would have been much easier. So we are not planning to use the Ethernet at this point of time. So what I am trying to attempt is to use the UART interface itself. So, remember we have the UART interface which we used again for communication between your computer and the serial terminal or the serial interface of the SDK. We have already used it for data communication so today I am trying to transfer large amount of data through this UART interface.

So while doing that we'll be learning many things. So what I'm trying to attempt is a simple image processing, so today we are trying to do it in software, later we will try to do it using hardware and we will compare the performance of software and hardware. So what I am trying to do is I am trying find the negative of an image, so by negative this is what I mean, so this is the image we are trying process the famous Lenar portrait. What I'm trying to do is find the negative of this image, so it should look something like this after I process it.

Okay? So this is the original, this is the negative of that image. Now this is a BMP image, so we prefer BMP format for image because here the image is in the raw format. This is not a compressed image, it's the raw format. It's a 512x512 image. OK, so width and height both are 512. And it is grayscale. That means each pixel here is stored using 8 bits of data. So what we will do is we'll send this entire image to the ZedBoard area. And from there, we will read the data. And what you have to do is you need to subtract each pixel here from 255.

That's how you're going to get the negative Because the maximum value for a pixel using 8 pixels is 255 and the minimum value is 0. So if you subtract the original pixel value from 255, you will get that negative image effect means black will become white, white will become black and all the grayscale in between will be inverted. Okay so that's what we are trying to attempt. Now to do this again you need to know a little bit about the BMP image format. You can go ahead and read it in Wikipedia, what PMP image is and on.

I'll give the basic introduction. So first thing how does your computer know when I click on this image? It has to be shown as a picture not as a text. That is happening because inside this file itself there are information like what is VIT, VIT, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-Site, ILLI, ILA. This image is linked with a particular program, so that's why when I click it, it is opening in the photo viewer or windows. So, you can see the picture pixel information using this software because you are seeing it as a picture.

Now if you want to really see how data is stored inside this file, you need to have some software for hex editing where you can do see the hexadecimal value. So, one thing is you can download this software HXT and if I open this image using this software you can actually see what is inside this image. Okay so this is what is inside this image. So you can see the information byte by byte. So the first two bytes inside the file L, P42 and 4D which are the ASCII code for BM. Then this 30, 8 is 8. So by reading this information your computer understands this is a BMP file. Every BMP file will start with the letter BM. Now after that again there are lot of information like what is the resolution XSCT, XSCT-Lite, XS

40438, this is the total file size. This much in decimal. Now if you check your file properties, you can actually see this. If you go to property, you will see the size is exactly this, 263-224 bytes. Now on the disk it is slightly higher again if you remember the concept of The first 1080 bytes which stores the information like what is the resolution, how many bits are used for representing color if it is a color image etc. So 1080 that is in hex 438 so if we go to 438 here so this is 438, 3132 yeah starting from So from here, the actual image data steps. Till this is the header portion. So when you process the image, you should not change the header part.

OK, so keep it as such because if you do any modification to the header maybe the file will get corrupted. You won't be able to open it. Now keep the header as such and from this point onwards each byte represents one pixel of data and you need to subtract that from 255. So that's what we are going to attempt. Now as I mentioned before I'm going to transfer I will store this file to the DDR first through the UART interface. So it comes through the Uart interface, to the ZYNC processor and from the processor I'm going to send it to the DDR.

So first I'll store it in DDR then I will read back from DDR do the processing and again store the processed image back in DDR and finally read it from DDR and send back to the computer through my UART interface. So that's what I'm going to do. So, as I mentioned before today, I am going to attempt to do it in pure software. And I'm going to use Tarata to send and receive data from the board. Okay so we'll come back to Tarata soon. So since I'm using only software, I'm directly starting from my SDK. So I'm starting an application project like our first project.

So let me call it Image Inversion as my project name since I have all the software choose this one predefined, empty application. Finish. Okay, no good. Source, new, source file, image inversion dot C. Okay. So let me directly start coding. So first thing to make our code flexible, currently I'm processing a 512x512 image with this header size but later maybe we will decide to process an image with different size so I don't want to hardcode this information in my program instead of that i am going to declare all this information at the top so maybe i'll say something like hash-define image size when image size is 512x512 and hash-define my header size is 1080, okay which we already found out. 1080 is the header part. Okay so int main,

okay so as I mentioned before our plan is to store this image information in the DDL So that you can do in many ways. One is, you can declare an array. So what should be the size of the array? The size of the array should be the total file, header plus image size. So maybe you will say like U8, image, data, then you will declare an array of this plus this size. That is one way. We are declaring it unsigned 8-bit because this image data you can see it is stored byte by byte and they are all unsigned data, okay? They are byte by byte so that's why you are declaring an array of this type but again we want to make our code very flexible okay so instead of hard coding it again instead of using a fixed size array we will do dynamic

memory allocation. So instead of saying like this, I will declare it as a pointer, U8-star, image data that means image data is a pointer type. Now after that you need to allocate memory using the MLOG function in C. Okay if you haven't seen before again you need to go and check the MLOG function and that function will allocate memory dynamically in your RAM. So I can say something like this image data equal to MLOG, okay so this is the function name memory-alog and how much memory we should allocate? We need to allocate this much memory and this function takes the size in bytes, okay so I I will write size of U8, which is 1 byte I know but still I'm writing it size of U 8 times image size plus header size.

Ok so I need image size plus other size that much data and each of them will be the size of U-8 which is 1 bit. So this is how we write it. Now the MLOK function that is... So, you need to include that one here. And U8 has been called it is in Zil types.h. Now here again I need to mention an important point. Now when we do dynamic memory allocation, that memory is allocated in a special form of your DDA or RAM called the heap memory. So in the computer architecture course we have studied about the stack memory if you remember. That is again a part of your main memory which is used for mainly for subroutines right? So the return address from subroutine we save and when you push used to all the register value in the stack memory etc.

So we have already seen stack memory, okay? And there is one more type of memory called the heap memory. So when you do dynamic memory allocation that memory is allocated from that part of the memory called the heap memory. Now here we are trying to allocate a large amount of memory in the heap and it is possible the system may not be able to allocate this much memory based on some settings. Now those settings are sitting inside this file, LingaScript. Ok, we will discuss more about it later what LingaScripts are. For the time being, you open that file and a lot of settings are there. There you can see two options, stack size and heap size. So these are the constants which decides what is the

maximum size of the stack memory and what is the maximum size of heap memory. Okay so here, 5D4 it is hex 2000, that means you cannot dynamically allocate more than HEX2000, but we are trying to allocate a large memory here. So how much memory we are trying to allocate? We are trying to get 512x512 plus 1080, right? In HEX it is somewhat this much, 4.0.4.3.8, okay? Which is much more than the current setting in the Linker script. So maybe later we need to allocate again more memory dynamically because maybe I will use a separate memory for storing the process data let's see if we are going to do it or I can use the same location whatever so we need to increase

This is the heap size basically. So this should be the minimum size, so we will allocate something much more than this, maybe double of this. Let's make it 100,000. Okay? So this double of this is 80,000 in hex, so let's put some 100,000 as heap memory, so that the system can allocate that much memory. So you need to press Ctrl S to save this file and let's come back. So memory allocation is done. Now next stage, you need to store the image data here. So as I said before, I'm going to transfer the data using the UART interface.

So it seems like you can write something like this for int i equal to 0, i less than image size OK let's define one more, has defined let's say file size which is image size plus so that I don't have to type OK, file size, file size I++ and scanf%c since we are sending character by character and ampersand image data of I. Now once you do this dynamic allocation you can use this image data like our normal array. OK, you can just use this index thing. So this seems like the way to store data. So if you do like that, and when we send data through the UART Interface he will read character by character and he is going to store it here.

So ideally they should work but unfortunately this might not work because we are going to send a lot of data and there could be issues due to which some data may be missed. You might be sending it from the computer, but it might not reach the FPGA. Again, the reasons for that I will try to explain in a separate video. So ideally if the board rates are matching, there shouldn't be any data loss. So we are using 115200 as the portrait for both FPGA and for the time being let's say FPGA and the computer so there should be any data loss.

But in reality that is not how the data is getting transmitted I will explain it in a different video, so as you can see between your computer and FPGA the interface is not actually your it is actually a USB interface and there is some guy on the board who is So there are some issues there and because of that when you're sending large amount of data like this, there will be data loss. And if you lose data like that, we'll have problem. You never come out of this loop because I will never reach file size even if one byte is missed during transmission.

So this will not work actually if you directly use scanf. So what you'll have to do is you will have to use the lower level UART driver to receive and transmit data. Actually, the scanf function as far as our ZedBoard is concerned is actually using the UART interface. So inside this function is calling the driver for UART interface, UART interface. So this function, inside this function is calling the driver for UART to send and transmit data but because of abstraction some time is lost during these function calls maybe that's why he's missing data so this will not work in most of the cases if you want to send a large amount of data instead of that you'll have to directly use the low-level

L, UART driver code. That is the main take-away. So those drivers, if you have seen the DMA video, those drivers are actually provided by Xilinx themselves. So if you go to BSP in code, you will see XPS. Okay? So this is the header file for that driver. Xilinx, UART, UART. VDS means Processing System. So this is the driver for the UART in the processing system, which we are actually using to interface with the computer. We need to directly use this driver instead of using the high-level functions scanof and printf in this case. So let me include it, hash include XUART PS.H. Now the driver architecture is similar to the and the driver architecture we have seen before for the DMA controller.

You have one structure here for configuration, and another structure here which represents the actual you want. And if you come below, you will see a lot of functions. So the main functions are this one, UART lookup config, and configuration initialization. So these functions we need. So first function will be this one. So you need to watch the video on the DMA where I am giving more explanation about this function. So more or less all drivers from Xilinx they look similar. So lookup config myUART config, it is a pointer and we need to call this function and we need to pass the device ID here, device ID of UART. That information is also sitting in X-parameters.h so we go to X-parameter.h and search for UART and here is UART and this

is the SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. and the effective address which is actually the base address. So that you can get using like this or you can directly add it from the X parameters because there you have the base address of the UART. You either directly use this one as a third parameter or you can use your config base address because this information is getting stored inside the structure when you are calling this function. OK, now this function returns the status. So status equal to, let me call it U32Status and if status not equal to, what config? This is the function. So it returns success if successfully Initialized. So if status is not equal to success, we'll say print initialization.

Okay so that will basically tell me whether initialization was successful or failed. Now we need to do some more settings. Remember one important setting for UART is the border. Now this print function is actually going through the same UART. So entirely this print function will be using some of the functions in the UART driver itself. Okay, so that's the interesting thing. Okay, so UART PS.H if you come back this function, UART set board rate. This is a function used for setting the board rate for UART. Even if you don't call it by default it will set 115200 but still better call it and configure So it takes the pointer to the UART and the vote rate which is 115200. This also returns the status,

so let's say status equal to this one and same way if status is not equal to success K, vote rate init failed. Okay now we can write the code for accepting data through the UART interface. So it will look exactly same as what I wrote before, int i, i less than file size, i++. Now the function, the drive function to receive data from UART is this one, UART receive. Okay? This is the function so it takes three parameters first parameter is the pointer to the UART itself. Second parameter is the address of the memory where the received data should be stored and third one is how many bytes are you expecting through the UART interface?

Now, the interesting thing about this function is this is working in a polling mode so you can read the description here. So what happens is when you call this function he will just check if there is any data already available, if data is available he will store it in the memory. If data is not available or if the data available is less than the number of bytes you specified here, he will just copy the available data. If no data is available, he will not copy anything. So basically this function we call it as a non-blocking word.

That means... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ZYQ, XSct, ILA, ILA- SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XS SoC, Vipo, VD So this function returns how many bytes he actually received, which may be less than or equal to the number that you specify here. OK, so I'm taking that function. So first thing is a pointer buffer where you want to store? I want to store it here. So first thing is a pointer buffer, where you want to store? I want to store it here. This image data pointer that is why we created it. I want to show it here and what index I should use.

Okay that we will see how many bytes are you expecting? So actually I am expecting this much byte OK? This much byte. If this function was not blocking, I could have written like this. Means I call this function and he will transfer this much data to this memory if it was blocking. That means he is going to wait until this much data comes. But unfortunately that is not the case. So I'm going to slightly modify here instead of for loop, I'm going use while YLOOK, then only it will work properly. And I'm going to call this received bytes because the function is going to return how many bytes he received.

So let me declare it U32 received bytes and make one more variable. So let's initialize this guy to 0 and U32 total received bytes. Let me make that also 0. and I will say something like this while total received bytes is less than file size, okay? Received bytes is this much and total received bytes plus received bytes. So if I write like this, this will make sure I will remain in this loop until I receive all the data. So now here what I should put, here I should put total received bytes. So initially it is 0. So if he gets 1 byte, he will store in first location and this will increment to 1.

So next time when I come to the loop, this will store in the next location so and so forth. So it works. And this value instead of file size you can put any value between 1 and file size It doesn't matter because of this loop it will always work. So let me put maybe some 100 bytes, that means I'm expecting 100 bytes. So he may get 100 or less than 100. So you can put 101 and what a value you like here. So he's expecting, he will copy maximum 100 or anything less than 100, the exact amount he actually copied will come here and that I'm adding to total byte and I am using that as the index here.

So this should copy data from my terminal to the DDL because this is in DDL. Now he's saying passing argument 2, okay so this argument 2 He is expecting it of a point U8*, type again it is perfectly fine if you write like this it will work But you can do a typecasting like this if you want that warning to go away. Cost point, yeah, this is fine. Oh better I don't work. Yeah, yeah, yeah. My mistake he's expecting an address so we need to write ampersand because if you look at the function the second one is a... SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA.

So the data is really getting transferred, let me write this more for loop here, int i equal to 0, i less than say 10, i++, and let's try to print, Cap print tough, %0x, image, data, I'm just trying to print the first 10 elements from the image data just to check whether it is actually working or not. whether our code is working or not. Okay, so now let's try to run an XSCT and see whether it is working. So you need to connect both the cables to the computer. Now we'll do the run configuration. So run configuration, application and standalone, or script application, this one.

Before running we will go to Dharadam and CGL, Import, Setup, CGL port 115200. Run it here. Here nothing came that means these two errors didn't happen he might I will be waiting here for the data. Now how are we going to set the data? I am not going to type this one by one on the terminal, this information. This is one good thing about the router. You can go to file and there is an option send file choose that and browse that image. Important thing to remember you need to check this option binary. This is a binary file.

This is not a text file, if you don't check it the wrong data will be getting sent. So remember to check this option and open now you can see he's sending data. So it will take some time because we are running at board rate 115200 around 11 kbps so that's why it will take sometime for the data to send forecast. So once we finished data transfer, this print came here. So see actually I forgot to put comma otherwise you will see this is 424D3844 and if I look at the data here 424D 3844 so it is working. So data got transferred, it got stored in that area.

And here I'm actually reading it from that area and send it back to the UI. Fine. Now let's do the data processing. Okay, so as I mentioned before, I need to do data processing. I don't want to modify the header, I want to modify only the image portion. So what I will do for I equal to we'll start from the header size position. I less than file size, I plus and I will say image data of i is 255 minus image data of I, okay so this is the data processing. This is basically data transfer from computer to DR. This is read.

So, we have to call UARTPSSend. This is the function to send through the UART. Now the thing is this function also is known blocking. So you can see the parameter pointed to the controller UART, the memory from where he needs to transfer and how much byte you VIT, VIT, WIPER, ILA, ILA- This is less than file size, so this I'll say like transmitted bytes. This will be total transmitted bytes. Total transmitted bytes is less than files size, this is transmitted bytes and total transmitted bytes is total transmitted bytes plus transmitted bytes.

OK, so we declare them again all 32 unsigned 0 and transmitted bytes. OK here now we need to give 100% UART address of the memory from where you want to transmit should be total transmitted bytes and number of bytes let's transmit byte by byte again So we don't need this printing here, I have already removed it, I guess. Here we receive, here we process, here we are sending it back. Now let's come back here, so you know when he sends back data through UART that will be displayed here. But that is of not much use to us because I need to see the final image actually, right? So whatever data is coming from here, I want to store it in a file so that I can open that file and see what is actually happening. So there is a promotion for that

also. So you go here, there is an option log here and let me call it FilteredImage.BMP That is the name of the log file. That means this is a file used for storing the received data. Remember to choose this option, binary. Okay, binary should be checked. And let's uncheck this up and otherwise each time you use your software he gives on adding to the same file. We don't want that to happen. Okay, save. So this is the window. So when he is receiving data from ZedBoard, You will see this by-transort will increase, okay?

Okay so let's run it once more, run, okay? Let's go to file, send file, then our BMP, Kofpan. Okay now he is transmitting. Once transmission is over you should see like he starts receiving. He is receiving data so here you will see like some gibberish this is because binary data is represented in ASCII format. He is trying to represent it using characters that's why here it is not making sense but here You can see like byte transfer is increasing and this information is stored in a file, okay? The file that we specified. Now here interesting thing you are transmitting how much data?

512 by 512 plus 1ig right which is so if you see we are supposed to receive this much data 263, 224 but we received only 263, 194. That means 30 bytes we missed somehow during data transmission. So this is a challenge actually again why this may be happening I will try to explain in a separate video although the board rates are matching so what you may The first thing you may want to do is before you transmit a new byte, you may want to wait for some time. Okay? So we need to use the sleep function but I'm using microsecond sleep and I am giving 2000 so basically I am waiting two milliseconds before each data transfer and this function is actually defined in sleep

Dot H, so before I transmit each character waiting for 2 millisecond to make sure no data is lost during transmission. The side effect of this one is the transmission between your board and your computer is going to take a lot of time actually because you are waiting two milliseconds between each byte, each character. So let me try transmission once again. Okay so I will close. If you come here this is that file where it is locked and if you open it you can actually see the filtered data but unfortunately some bytes are missing So if you try to open it here, Windows won't let you open it. He'll say like this file is corrupted.

Okay so that's the problem. Okay so let me, okay we'll all write it. So let me go back here, clear buffer and again choose the log file as the same file, filter image.bmp and let me come back here, run this once again, OK, and file, send file, then I don't need it. Now this is going to take a lot of time during reception transmission, it's the same, reception will take much longer type so let's see. My data transmission is over, I got 263222, it is still slightly less than 263224, maybe for you have received all the bytes but in my case I have still missed 2 bytes.

So if these are very small number of bytes, you can add some dummy data to the end so what I am doing is opening this file and at the end I don't know exactly from where I missed the byte but still I'm just adding two dummy bytes so we need to close this and I am adding So, that's it. So I guess you have a basic idea about how to do large data transmission to the ZedBoard and back. Thank you.
