Hello all, in this short video I am trying to explain why data loss may happen when you have UART-based communication between your computer and ZedBoard. Ok so as you know UART is a very simple serial communication so as shown in the picture here we have two parties here who are sending data using UART interface So the TX pin of the first chip is connected to the RX pin here, similarly TX pin of this chip is connected with RX pin here. So one interesting thing that you notice here is there is no hand-shaking mechanism here.

There is no way for the receiver to tell the transmitter whether he successfully accepted ADAT or not. Ok? So this is like a radio communication. The transmitter just sends data. So there is no dedicated handshaking signal going between the transmitter and the receiver. But of course you can implement this handshaking through the data itself, okay? So that we are not discussing here but at hardware level there is no dedicated handshacking between the transmitter on receiver. Okay so that's about you. Now if you look at the Z board So that's about you. Now, if you look at the Z board and we are claiming that this is the UART interface which is used for communicating with the computer but as you

might have noticed this interface is actually connected to the USB interface of the computer so the modern PCs that we are getting nowadays they don't have a dedicated serial communication interface in all days they used to have a serial communication port where we use to connect the external modem, we call it the serial port and there was a parallel port also for connecting the printer. But nowadays everything is unified and usually you have only the USB interface so you are actually connecting your Z board to the computer using USB interface but the Zynq chip doesn't have a USB interface which USB to UART interface, and the particular chip that you are using here or used on ZedBoard is CY7C64225 from Cypress.

So this is a USB to UART bridge. So this chip is responsible for converting the data coming through the USB interface into UART interface. And the output of this chip is UART which is connected to the ZYNC chip. Similarly, the data coming from the ZYNNQ, it is on UART standard and this chip converts it into USB standard and sends it to your computer. and again here there is a detailed block design, so this is your Zynq chip, this is how the UART TXR-RX are going. They're going through a level shifter because the output voltage here is at 1.8V but this chip it works at 3.3V, so this voltage level converter he converts the voltage level okay then this chip he converts USB to UART and UART to USB, so that's why we call it a USB to UORT bridge

So essentially on teratim or the SDK serial communication terminal, when you are setting the board rate, you are essentially setting the board rate for the communication between Zynq and the bridge. Okay? Because that is where you are interface here, the interface between the chip or USB to UART bridge and your computer, it always follows USB 2 standard which is a different standard and of course USB has built-in handshaking mechanism so the chances of losing data when you communicate through USB almost non-existent. Okay so this part I already explained what is actually the bridge So what happens if your chip does not accept the data at the rate which the bridge is setting it, you will lose data

So that's why we didn't use abstract functions like Scanf, which consumes a lot of time. So if you're using Scanf function and trying to read one by one by data from the bridge, there is a possibility that you will miss data. That's why instead of using Scanf functions, we used the low-level driver of the UART, which reduces the chances of missing data when the data comes from the computer to The other side, when you are transmitting from the Zynq chip to the computer through the bridge, what might be happening is you are sending at very high speed a 115200 board rate which the bridge initially stores internally then it takes from there and send it through the USB interface.

Now again this conversion from UART to USB takes some time and if you are sending at very high rate the internal buffer of the bridge might be off-line because he is taking some time for this conversion and that causes data loss. So that's why when we are putting some delay between transmission from the Zynq chip to the bridge, the data loss is not happening because you are sending 1 byte then you and you are waiting for some time, then you are sending the second byte so on and so forth. So the bridge gets enough time to convert the data from UART standard to USB standard and it prevents buffer overflow that means his internal memory is not overflowing.

So this is a possible cause. Now there are other mechanisms in UART for handshaking. So again, Taratum if you take the serial interface you will see there is an option called the Flow Control. Ok so this is a basic mechanism for preventing buffer or flow in the receiver. So you will see two options there none that means there is no handshaking mechanism or flow control mechanism that is the default setting we are using or there are two other mechanisms one is called hardware that means there are dedicated signals for telling the Transmitter that the receiver is not ready to accept data, his internal buffer is almost full.

And there is another method based on software called the Exxon XOFT. So this Exxon XOF they are special ASCII characters which the receiver will be sending to the transmitter to inform him that he's not ready to except data or he's ready to accept data based on his internal buffer condition. But unfortunately, the UART in the PS part, he doesn't have either of these flow control mechanisms so we cannot really use this mechanism. We don't have any flow control, so the only way to prevent data overflow and data loss is to put some delay when you're transmitting from Zynq chip to the computer. On the other side, from computer through the bridge to ZYNC to prevent data loss you should be using

the low-level UART driver instead of directly using the scanner function. Okay? Yeah, that's it. Thank you.
