Hello, in this tutorial we are trying to attempt the same image processing the image filtering operation using hardware which we did using software in the previous tutorial. So remember we already built our custom IP core for image filtering few tutorials back. So this one and there was a slight mistake which I have corrected here so I have updated My Block Design using this updated IP. In addition to that, I'm making few more modification. One is on this XC-DMA controller which we instantiated before. So I have changed a few parameters.

One parameter is this buffer length register. I guess before it was 12 bit. This is basically saying the size of the register where the processor is going to configure That means you can transfer to 12 of 23 minus 1 bits, which is approximately 8 megabytes. So that is one change I have done. Another change I have run is I have changed the maximum birth size. This is for the AXI interface so the larger the birth size the better will be the read and write performance from the memory. I have increased it to the maximum value 256. Another thing that I have done is I have enabled this option allow and align transfer, so what it does is if you are saying AXIStream width

as 32 bit there's a requirement that the memory from which you read or write should be a multiple of 4 because this is 4 bytes, 32 bits. So the memory from which you start reading or writing should be a multiple of 4, 0, 4, 8, 12 etc. Now in my software I am doing memory allocation at byte level so it doesn't guarantee that the MLOC function is going to return me an address This alignment problem, the data transfer starting address multiple of 4 you may see in the data transfer buffer, whose starting address is 0, 1, 2, 3, any number, that byte address.

So that may cause issues so if I check this option allow an Align Transfer the starting address doesn't matter it might not be a multiple of 4. So this alignment problem the data transfer starting address a multiple of four you may see in many other places also especially when we go for PCI Express design and all there Also, this requirement is that starting orders should be able to move forward. These are due to some internal architecture details of the processor and the system. So remember to make these changes, change the width of buffer length register and enable an online transfer and increase the birth size.

So how it is going to affect your design? So, after these changes, otherwise the design is exactly same, that we turn a couple of videos I have completed the test for testing the DMA controller and generated bitstream. So, I have completed, I have generated a little bitstream after that I'm going to export it hardware and launching software so I have made a fresh copy. I just copied pasted the folder where I have kept this project before so that I don't destroy my previous project because it was working fine. So I don't want to destroy that project. So that's why it made a fresh project. So you can also do the same thing and you may delete the.sdk folder inside that folder and start the SDK product fresh.

That's what I'm doing. So here I am starting a new project, application project, let me call it harder. Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S want to copy the source code. So my case, it is in this computer, DVR folder, DMA system. This is my old folder I am currently working here. I made a copy of that folder I'm currently working on here so I go to my old folder and the DMA test source. Okay so this is my old source file. So he's asking which old files you want to choose. I'm choosing only DMA test because I want to copy only that file. I don't want to copy any other file and you just say finish.

So what happens is a copy of that file comes into your current project. Okay, so this is the property of importing source code either written by you or something that you got from others using the import method. OK, so what I want to do is to this code, I want to integrate the codes which are used for transmitting image to my system and sending it back. So that part I want to integrated. So you can also import it over here. But I'm going to copy it. So I'm going into my other project, Data Transfer, Image Inversion, Source, Image Inversion.

So this is my old code, I'm copying all of them to my current project and okay so this end code for initializing DMA I am copying and I'm keeping it at the beginning I'll delete this array, this was used for just testing the simple DMA transfer So let me delete it. This part I will keep, this part was the initialisation for the DMA controller, so I am keeping it as such. Now remember in the linker script last time we increased the size because you are using a large buffer for storing your image, so let me increase heap size. Last time we used 100,000 but what I observed is even with 100,000 sometimes allocated memory block. Okay, so this value will be either 0 or a negative number

depending upon the system if the MLOC function fails. So we can actually check if image data if it is less than or equal to zero that means I can just print memory allocation failed. So once memory allocation failed there is no point in and going further I can stop my program and exit. Okay, so we will proceed only if the memory allocation is successful. So ideally in the previous code also you should add this to check whether memory allocation is successful or not. Okay, otherwise it's fine. So we initialize the DMA transfer.

OK, so this is where we send data to the DMA. So, what we'll do is we'll add the code for transferring data from computer to the DDA which we already have from our previous project. So I'm copying it and putting it here. So data transfer from computer to DDA through the UI interface so the code remains the same. Now this status before data transfer, this we added last time just for debugging purpose to check whether DMA controller is in holdup state or not. You can either keep it, or you can delete it. Now this we did the cache flash to make sure the cache is not causing trouble.

That means the data coming from the processor, maybe in the cache it is not in the DDR so if you try to transfer data from DDR to the IP through the DMA you will be getting all that instead of the new data. So it seems like this time we are sending data to the DDR through the UART interface. Okay, so this is the function used for that. So it appears that the processor is not playing any role here, but that is not the case. So what is happening inside this function is the processor is reading from one of the registers of the UART controller in the PS and the processor writes it to the memory.

So this is still some kind of PIO operation inside the PS. The processor reads from the UART controller, then he writes it to the DDF. So although you cannot directly see the Xilin function here that is happening in the background, okay? So we still need to flash the cache. So either you can use this function, Xilin cache flash range where you have to give the starting address from where you want to flash and how much data you want to Flash, so in this case the starting address will be this one, image data and how much you want to flash? You want to flash this much file size that many bytes. Okay so you can either write like this or you can use the function cildecash-flash which will

flash the entire cache okay so it may take a little bit more time but does the job So either of them are fine. And this was the function for DMA transfer. So remember, we are initializing the reception first then we are configuring the transmission. Okay? So reception should be initialized first. So this part remains same pointer to the DMA controller. This one is the buffer where the received data should be saved. So in our case, we have some buffer in the DDA after MLO, this one. So the initial image is sitting here as well as the process image should come back to the same buffer.

Or you can allocate another memory to do it. But same memory will do. So what I'll do is I will copy this one from here and output here. This is the starting address. Now don't put Amazon here because he's expecting an address here, a pointer, an image data. itself is a pointer, itself is an address. So you should put it here. Here we are using Ampersand because I am not directly using image data, I'm using the array style of representation, image data of total received bytes. Okay so this should be taken together and he's expecting an address. In that case you need to put Ampersand if you're using this array style.

Okay so if you're just using image data no need to put ampersand but if you're If you are using image data of 0 like this, you need to put ampersand here. Drop to something, this is an address. Okay. Now how much data we want to transfer? We want to transfer... How much data? Oh! I guess I made a mistake. So if you write like this, he will transfer from the beginning onwards, which includes the header part also. Right? VIT, VIT, ILA, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, You want to transmit starting from this address, you want to transmit this much data, and this is the direction.

So this is the only difference first one is saying you need to trans... So, from device to memory. Second one you are transferring from memory to the device. Now this status checking you can do after this one also to make sure both are fine. Then status equal to hold down status. Okay so everything should be fine. So this screen was again for testing I can remove it and I can put the code for transferring Data, back from memory to the computer. So I can copy paste this part. So remember, this is the part where filtering is happening in the software.

So we don't want that part. And this is the point where it is sending back. So instead of this, we have the DMA part. So we paste it back. And OK, this one is actually this one. OK, DMA data to the IP core process. That is what it's doing. Send it back. This two microsecond again let me first try with one microsecond delay to check whether things will be faster. You save it. Yeah, no errors, no worry. Everything looks fine. So you can go to run, run configuration, standalone application. Apply close. Okay, so now you should connect your board and this name also I'm going to program from Vivado Open target, open connect. We still have our Dupot core but if you wish you can see how signals are changing

Okay now, protect our atom and configure everything. Enable log So let me call this hardware filter.bmp binary file, no appending, save to be here then our new software, configuration since we are running the first time we need to run from here, launching on hardware, ok done, come back to OK, so we still have this print DMA initialization, so we need to remove it because you can see in the log file he stored this one, which will cause problems so we need remove this print actually, clear buffer, enable log again, hard-on filter, come back, file, send file, primary file, operand So we are getting the data back.

Ok, my data transfer is completed. I am supposed to get 263, 224 but I'm getting more than that. That means I still have some print in my core which was logged. So what I can do is, in the HXT editor, I can open that receive file and I can see at the beginning there is some more data. More Data, it is not starting with B.A. and here it actually shows the ASCII code for each data so you can see DMA transfer success that is that extra print so I was supposed to Remove this one also. Okay, so I'm not rerunning my code what I'm doing is I am simply deleting everything before 4240s okay to process and you can delete it instead of So, the hardware filtering is happening and the output looks exactly same as the software filtering.

OK, so we effectively use the DMA transfer to do it. Now what's the advantage of using hardware on software? We'll discuss in the next tutorial. So basically we will compare the performance of doing this operation in software, how much time it takes in software and how much time is takes in hardware and compare the performance. OK, so see you in the next video. Thank you.
