Hello all, in this tutorial we are going to compare the performance of software-based processing with DMA based image processing. The technique used here for performance measurement is not only applicable to this DMA based system but you can use it for profiling any application whether it is purely software based, purely hardware based or a mix of software and hardware. So since I am planning to compare both software and hardware performance, I will bring the code for software-based filtering. So we already have it, which is this one.

So I'm copy pasting this code to my existing code. This is the one we developed last time for hardware based image filtering. So I'm copying pasting that code for software based processing also so that I can compare Now the standard way of doing performance measurement in C programming is something like this. So we will include a header file called time.h and you will have to declare two data. 2 data actually both of them are of type clock underscore T this is a pre-defined data type which is stored in time. So the basic idea is before you are processing you will measure what is the current type and after the processing you will again measure what is that time and you find the difference between

So here if I want to measure the execution time for this part, what I will do is start equal to clock and I'll write end equal to clock. So I get the current time here, starting time, I'll get the end time here and I can simply print a new time. And then I can also print a new one. So I can print a new set of two. Time here, starting time. I'll get the end time here and I can simply print processing time percentage F and minus dot divided by clocks Second again clock per second is a constant again defined in time.h which basically tells how many clock cycles are the second from processor point of view.

So this will basically tell me how many clock cycle the processor took to do this operation. Now if I know the frequency at which the processor is running, I can use that information to get the XR type, the VAR clock type. Okay? So that's how we do it in the standard read program. Now unfortunately if you combine this code, you are going to get an error here and okay that is because of my print so this is floating point so I have to use print function. Okay so here you are going get an error like undefined reference to underscore times.

So this is coming from the header files, the Xilinx code somewhere in time.h. Zilinx, ZSCT, ZSct, ZS 64 bit timer, there are other timers called the SU timers, Nuke control unit timers. So each processor core has separate SU timers they are 32 bit timers then there are something called triple timer counter blocks there are two of them and each of them Has three 16 bit timer and counter so we can use any of them depending upon the purpose Now the easiest one is to use the global timer and the advantage is you don't have to do any special initialization for the global timer because it is common for both.

So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, UART, ILA, ILA. So in fact, our previous high-level function, the clock function, it is supposed to use this low level function to get the current value from the global timer. I really don't know why it's not happening. Another interesting thing you can see a constant here. Counts per second is declared here as X-pass CPU, got X clock frequency, has divided by 2. This timer is running at the half frequency of the processor, if processor is at 667 MHz, it is just running at half of it around 333 MHz.

So you can see that constant is also declared here. So the code will look very similar to what we wrote before but instead of using the clock function, we are going to use the function Xtime get time. that takes one parameter of type Xtime and a pointer. And if you see, this is just a typed-off to U64. Okay? So Xtime is same as an unsigned integer 64 bit. So this function is going to return that value. Only thing is it is not returning. You have to pass a pointer to a variable of this time and that value will be updated with the current value in the global timer.

So let's come back here and instead of time.h we include Xtime underscore L.H And instead of this start and end, we will declare variables but they should be of type Xtime or U64 any of them. So let's declare them Xtime start and end. And here instead of writing start equal to clock, you have to write get time and you have to pass the address of start. Instead of writing start equals to get time. Same way for end, we will write Xtime get time, ampersand end. processing time is percentage and minus star divided by cross per second.

And here it is written as counts per second. So let's use that. Okay, so this is going to return the time in seconds, which may be very small value. And let's print the value in microsecond because we are going to use harder processing also, which is quite fast. So if you directly print it in a second, it may be very small value so let me directly convert it into microsecond by multiplying by 10 to the power of 6 and we are expecting a floating-point number. So these are unsigned integers so to get a floating- point number at least one of the operands should IP 41, so let me type it as 10 to the power of 6.0 so that he converts it into a float.

That's it. Now implicit declaration okay so this time I have to use Xtdi your to attach because previously it was declared or included in the timed touch like it was automatically included and this time we had to explicitly OK, that's it. So another thing I'm going to do is I just want to measure the time So, so this is the application. Of course you can do it. But this time I want to measure the time for computation only because the time for transferring is same for both software and hardware. So it's not giving me any special information.

In this particular case, I really don't know or don't care about the correctness of my I have already checked it, the logic is working fine. So I really don't want to transfer an image from the computer to the board and spend time on it. Similarly, I don't want send the image from both to the computer and waste more time. So what I will do is I'll comment out this part which is used for sending data from computer to the board, similarly I will comment out this part which is used for setting data from board to the computer. Now following same style you can measure the time required for hardware processing also so here let's write processing time for software it's this much so same style

I can use for hardware also, okay so this is where hardware processing starts and this is where it finishes. So the same code here and time for hardware. That's it. Compile and we can directly run it. I already have that on configuration from my previous project I have set up my TARA term, I'm directly running it and because I I commented on the part for sending image, I should be directly seeing the result here and this is the result so you can see processing time for software This is in microsecond if you wish we can add that anyway microsecond, microsecond So the time required for software is this much microsecond Time required for hardware is this much Microsecond

So if I take the ratio 6, 471 divided by 464, you'll see hardware is approximately 14 times fast design software for this particular application. Now, if you increase the image size or the data you are processing, maybe you will find hardware has better performance than K, okay so only issues may be our memory allocation may fail, let's see, okay no issues. So now software begins 25.883 and hardware is 1841, so 25.883, 1841, so it's approximately again still close to 14 times, So this is the real advantage of hardware, so it's approximately 14 times faster.

Now you may feel like the software has some disadvantages because software processing I'm doing byte by byte here in the for loop. Here you can see I am taking 1 byte at a time and subtracting it from 255, but in the hardware my interface is 32 bit interface. So I'm taking 4 bytes at a time and doing the processing. So maybe for better comparison in software also, we need to do 32-bit processing instead of 1 byte at a time. So that you can do. We were doing 1 byte at time because I was allocating memory using U8. And I'm multiplying with file size to get the total.

Instead of U8, you can allocate memory at U32. That means size of U32 will return me 4. Now same image, there is no difference in the resolution. So instead of file size, which is basically the sum of these two, which is returning me the size in byte, this time I'm allocating using 4 byte in one shot. So this will become 1 by fourth of that, right? and this image data now should be declared as a pointer to 32-bit data because I am allocating using U32. So, so you have to do everything by four because you are allocating at 32 now.

Your match size of I is 0xFFFFFFFF. You're processing 4 bytes at a time. So each time I is incrementing, now it is representing a 32 bit data, not an 8 bit data because your allocation is at 4 bytes, U32. So same way you have to modify here also, header size by 4, header size by 4. This image size this you don't have to modify because for DMA you have to specify size in number of bytes not in number of 32 bits or D-words we say. Okay so this doesn't change because the size in bytes is still this one but here in the array representation, each element now represents 4 bytes. So that's why I'm modifying it here.

Okay, that's it so let's save and try to run this more. Okay, so now for your 32 memories failing is not able to allocate using your 32 this much but actually it's the same amount of memory Again some internal system details, so let me go back to the original size of my 12-barrel. Okay, so this is the numbers I am getting. Now if I take the ratio 7671 divided by 464, it is 16 and a half. OK, so it seems like our phones became worse when I am processing it at the D-word level or using 32 bits. Again this will be due to internal architecture details how data is fetched from the memory, how processor is extracting one byte from 32 bits things like that.

So we really don't worry about that in this course. But the main takeaway is the hardware performance is much better than the software performance. Now, I can further improve my hardware performance if I increase the clock frequency at which my IP is running. Maybe I'll get better performance. Remember we are running at 100 MHz, but I can change that frequency up to 250 MHz provided I can satisfy all the timing requirements. That may increase my performance. Another thing currently we are working in the polling mode so for DMA, we are constantly checking the status register to check whether the DMA transfer is over or not.

Again that will be consuming some time, this constant checking. Instead of that if you go with the Intrep based mechanism which we'll discuss later, maybe my performance will improve a bit. I will have better performance. So this is what is motivating us to go for hardware implementation of IP cores because of their performance, because of the improvement that they give in terms of throughput. But maybe there are some applications where hardware is not that great especially applications where you have a lot of control which are control intensive rather than data intensive Things like you have a lot of events if condition, maybe there software may be better than hardware.

Okay so that's it, so I hope this motivates you to focus more on hardware development because they are giving much better performance. Thank you.
