Hello all, in today's tutorial we are going to discuss how to use Xilinx IP core within your Vilo code. So in our previous project we have used IP cores from Xilinx, we have used the DMA controller, we have use the AXI Interconnect, we have using the Zynq PS processing system. These are all IP cores from xilinx but we use them in the IP integrator flow or for the block based design. But today we are going to discuss how to use Xilinx IP cores within your Videlog code. Now why you want to use Xylinx IP cores within your design?

Again depends upon the requirement, sometimes these IP cores you cannot be inferred through your coding like IP cores like the PLL or MMCM which are used for changing the clock frequency That code you can not directly write in Virlog, that is one reason. Sometimes you want to use Xilinx IP cores because they are more optimized. So even if you write the equivalent Virlog code or VHDL code, If you directly use the IP cores from Xilinx most probably they will be giving better performance in terms of clock as well as a resource utilization Because these cores are written by Xilinx engineers so they are More Optimized. So we are going to quickly see how to include this course in your code.

I will introduce few of the IP codes, but a large number of IP codes are available from Xilinx. Either they are totally free and some of them you get license for only implementation, but you cannot run it on hard. You can just go till implementation, you can simulate it, But you won't be able to generate bitstream. For generating bitstream, maybe you have to take additional licensing by being so different kinds of Models are available but of course all simple IP cores Available for free So first I am going to show you FIFO, so FIFOs are very commonly used IP cores within your Viddler code So we usually use FIFOs IP cores when your application cannot be completely stream based.

In the previous image processing application, I have shown how can you do a streaming? That means your IP cores, it doesn't have to store your data internally. It can process data as soon as the data comes. But in many cases that is not the case, your IP or your logic may not be processed the data at line rate. It will have to store initially data somewhere, then it will have to process data later. So in that case you have temporarily stored data somewhere and in that case FIFOs are very useful. Now as I said before writing a FIFO in Vilog, it is not that challenging but using Xilinx IP core for FIFO.

And they give different flavors of FIFO so we will see it. So I'm starting a new project and let me call it IP evaluation because I am going to use the same project for testing different IPs. And all remaining settings remain the same. You should go to this IP catalog option, you are not going to this blog design this time, we are directly writing our code in Vidlog. IPGAT log, and search for FIFO. And as I mentioned before you will get different flavors of FIFOs. You can have FIFOs with AXI4-Stream interface and FIFOs with so called the NATIVE interface, the traditional write enabled read enabled interface.

So different kind of FIFO, so let's use this one, FIFO generator. So you just double click it and it will open a wizard and where you can specify all your options. As you can see the first one is the name of the FIFO. The module name. So let's call it my FIFO from here you can see different interfaces what kind of interface flip-flop, VITA, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-SST, ILA. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ZynQ, The first data in the FIFO will come out through this interface. So there is no concept of address in FIFO because it's a first-in, first-out kind of memory.

So there is not special need for address from US side that's all managed inside the IP core itself. So if you want to write make the signal high give the data here. If you want to read make this signal high and the valid data will come out though this If there is no data in the FIFO, this signal will go high. So this is a traditional FIFO interface. Now if you choose AXI-Stream interface, you will see that the interface is changing to the AXI-stream standard, AXI4-Stream standard. We have the slave interface on the left which is used for writing to the FIFO.

So if you want to write, you place the data here, you make the valid signal high and if there is phase in FIFO, this ready signal will become high from the IP cores. That means your data got stored. If ready signal is low that means FIFO is not ready to write your data which basically indicates the FIFO full so your data won't get stored. So if you want to read from FIFO that comes through the master interface. So what you should do is you should make this signal high. M-AXI is ready signal high. That means you are ready to accept data and if there is data in the FIFO, this T-varied signal will become high and you'll get the data through this interface.

And again you have clock and reset signal here and some additional VCC signals here. Now there is memory mapped FIFO also so in this case it's not really a FIFO because you have to provide the address details also. So this is the interface for writing, this is the interface for reading so you can say it's quite complicated because it's an AXI4 memory mapped full interface. So traditionally or usually we always go for either this NATIVE interface which is the simple one or the AXI-Stream interface which is also quite simple.

Okay now another setting that you can set is This one, if you are going for AXIStream that option is going away. But if I choose Native, there is an option here how this flip-flop should be implemented inside FPGA. Now I hope from my first lecture you remember inside FPGAs we have lookup tables and LUTs in addition to that the new Xilinx FPGA they have other primitives also and one of the most important primitive is something BlockRamp, so they are small blocks of memory, small built-in memory inside the FPGA. For the ZYNC FPGA which comes under 7 series FPGA from Xilinx, the size of this small memory is only 36 kilo bit okay one small memory is on 36 kilo bit and depending upon the FPGA the number of

these small memories varies like the lookup tables and flip-flops. So you cannot build very large VIT, VIT, So, what features you can use also varies. That is the table showing here. Okay so let me try to explain few of those features. One feature is called common clock or distributed clock. Again this is one area where we will use a lot of FIFOs. For example you are getting data at a very high rate say 220 MHz. That's the clock frequency at which the data is coming from external world So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, UART, ILA- SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART- The data width of the write port and the data width of read port are different.

For example, you may be writing data at 8 bits wide, your write data is 8 bit but while processing you want to process at 32 bit so that is possible. So your write interface, this DIN interface will be 8 bit and this interface could be 32 bit. You will write 32-bit data using 4 clocks here, but when you read from here, you'll get that entire 32 bit in one shot in a single clock frequency. So those VIFOs we call them as asymmetric VIFOs. Other features you can read in the documentation so if you go here click here, the documentation will come for the IP core so you can read the details here.

So lot of features are supported depending upon what kind of implementation we choose. So this time I'm choosing common clock block RAM, that means read clock and the write clock they are the same frequency. And it will be implemented using block RAM. If you want different read and write, you should choose independent clock block RAM. Okay? Fine. So next one is some other options. So here you can choose what is the width of the write interface and what is the width of the read interface. Okay so let's write data at 8 bit and how many data you want to store in the FIFO, basically the depth of the FIFO. Okay let's give it a 1024. Here you choose the read width okay so see here you have the option like 124

816-3264, so your write width and read width can be different which makes it asymmetric. So read width also let me keep 8 for the time being so if it is 8 from read port perspective also the depth is 1024. If you make it 16 you are reading 16 bit in one shot so from read side perspective the depth of the 5.4 is only 512 because if you multiply these two numbers, you will get the same result as this which is a total capacity of the FIFO in bits. Okay, so here let's keep it 8 itself Choose standard FIFO what is first word for through maybe we'll discuss later reset type Synchronous asynchronous that is this reset if you uncheck it your FIFO It doesn't have any reset. Okay, again if you want to reset a FIFO or not up to you,

If you reset the FIFO all the data in the FIFO will be flushed. Okay so that's what is happening. If you want that property you can set the reset and if you never want to reset FIFO okay you of course uncheck it. Now it is also saying read latency 1 that means you place your read enable The data out will come only in the subsequent clock edge. Okay, so that is what is making it one clock latency. Now if you check this option output registers, what is going to happen is he will put additional register at the output data.

Okay, so, that will make your read latency too. So if you place a read enable, the actual data will come not on the next clock edge only after one more clock edge. So it will take two clock cycles after you place the read enable signal for the data to come out, okay? But the advantage is if you add this option, it is effectively adding a kind of pipelining which will improve your maximum clock frequency. Now he's asking where that additional registers Other status flags also. For example, almost full. When I check it you will see that signal is also coming. So almost full, almost empty. So again the EXAT numbers I don't remember. I guess almost full flag will become high. Yeah, the FIFO has one more position to fill. Okay?

So this, so you will in advance, you'll know the FIFO is going to get filled up. And similarly almost empty if you check it, you will see that signal is coming. So this flag will go high when there is only one more data in the FIFO. So if you read that data also, it will become totally empty. So these are the status. Now you can have something called programmable full and programmable empty. So if you set that option, instead of, you can use the full line empty, of course. Then there is this additional programmable full here.

So this signal will become high when the FIFO has as many data as you specify here. Okay? So if I specify 256 here, that means when the FIFO has 256 data, this signal will go high. Same way you can set programmable empty also. So that when only that many data is left inside the FIFO, that empty flag, programmable empty flag will become high. Okay so these are all additional features available again depending upon the application we may use it, we may not use it now. Data counter by default there are no data counter if you enable it this interface will basically tell you how much data are there in the FIFO Okay, so the maximum capacity of FIFO we set it as 1024. So that's why it is coming as 10 bit wide.

If I increase that size, the width here also will increase. So this interface will basically tell you how many data are currently available in the FIFO. Again if your application needs this information You can enable it otherwise you can keep it unchecked. Now this is the or summary so here you can see like we chose block RAM for FIFO implementation, so he's basically saying how many block RAMs he's going to use. So I mentioned each block RAM is 36 kilo bit but Xilinx has a feature they can divide this 36 kilo bit RAM into two 18 kilo bits RAM. So he's saying with current setting your FIFO will take only one 18 kilo bit Ram, if you go and increase this the FIFO size to some

large value and if you come to resources summary you will see like it has gone up yeah so if I set and a folder called IP within your project itself where he is going to store the details about your IP Now when this screen comes you can choose generate, okay, what it is actually doing let me explain now Xilinx they are not going to give you the actual VILOG code for the FIFO. What they will provide VIDU is a netlist. So currently, Vivado is synthesizing that FIFO in the background and he will make a netlist which you will be able to use in your design. Now the netlist that Xilinx generates they are called DCP file okay they will have the extension.dcp which stands for

Design Checkpoint. This is a proprietary netlist, not like the netlist that we have seen last semester. So once he finishes it, this file will come here. So this is the action at least.tcp file,.design checkpoint file. Now if you go to hierarchy, yeah, you will notice it is not a Vilog file. Okay? So this is called an XCi file,.XCi file. Xilinx core integrator I guess. That is the IP file. So in future if you want to change any property of your FIFO what you should go do is you just double click this file, the same with that will come up so you can change whatever property you want and say OK again.

So you'll again synthesize the netlist. You change any property here, he'll resynthesize your IP core because effectively this is going So, any change in the source code you have to reset the size. Fine! Next question, how are you going to use this FIFO within your design? As I mentioned before, Xilinx they're not going to give you the complete VIDLOG source code but the only information that you want to use an IP within your code is like what is the name of the IP and what is the interfaces to the IP, that's the only information that you need. Okay, that they will provide so if you come back to this IP, if you expand this, you'll see this option, Instantiation Template. Okay, so if you expand

that folder, you will see two file, YFIFO.vho, YFIPO.vjo, the VHO file, this is an instantiation template in VHDL, this VEO is an instantiation template in VIDlog. So if you come down, You will see the instantiation template. Okay? And this we have seen before, this is how we instantiate modules within other modules. So he's saying like the name of the module is myfifo, the instance name you can give whatever you want. And these are the ports to the FIFO and whether they are input or output and what their bits are, they are giving as commands.

OK, so this is the only information you need if you want to use this IP within your design. OK, now he has finished synthesize, so you can see now that the DCP file is here. This is the Netlist file. You cannot directly open and view it at this point. So yeah, so it's pretty useless for you but as far as Vivado is concerned he will use the netlist when he goes for the implementation step. So he will combine this netlist with the netlist of the remainder of the circuit and he will make a single netlist and he will implement it.

That's what is going to happen. So let's do one thing, let's use this FIFO within your design. OK, so you will copy this instantiation template and you'll use it within your Verilog source code. So let me make a Vilox source code now, let me just call it 54test.v OK, so I have it here and I want to use this 54 in my design So I just copy paste that instantiation template and give the instance name My54, let me call it My54 itself Now if you have other part of your design Of course you can write that and integrate it with this FIFO, but currently I don't have any other design, any other code.

So I will just keep this code itself and directly interface it with the top of my audio. Okay so let me call it, I have import clock, I have input reset, I have Input 8-bit data, 7 down to 0, input, input, let me say, input data, valid, output, 7 down to zero out data, and let me say input read. So, I can directly connect this clock. I can directly connected here. This reset I can connect here. So now the FIFO is not XSIVASE-FIFO so the reset is active high, not active low. So if you want to reset FIFO make the signal high.

Data in I can directly connecting in. Right enable I can directly conduct data valid because when data is valid this signal will become high. So that is effectively connected to write enable, so this data will get stored in the FIFO. Now read enable, okay, read data I can directly connect here, eout I can connect here. Now full and empty again depends if your logic wants to check whether the FIFO is full before writing to it you can add that. The only thing is if FIFois full and if you try to write to that FIFO that data won't Save as empty, if the FIFO is empty and if you try to read from FIFO some data will come out but it will not be a valid.

That's it so I'm not connecting them I just want to test my FIFO. So now once you save it you will see in the hierarchy this IP goes under FIFO's or test. So this is like, this is instantiated within this. Now we can simulate and see how the FIFO is running. So you can go ahead and choose Run Simulation, Run Behavioral Simulation. Now if you are using Xilinx IP cores, even for behavioral simulation You need to give some respect for the clock signal so don't try to run it at 1000 MHz or things like that. So we usually say in behavioral simulation it doesn't matter what the clock frequency is, you can put as much as you want.

But once you have IP cores, give some respect so maybe run at 100 or 200 or 250 MHz, not more than that. Again depends on the FIFO, depends on the IP because there are restrictions on what's the maximum clock frequency the IPs are running. So this is my clock, so reset initially let me keep everything in reset in data let me make it zero and then I will run the In data valid let me make it 0, in data let me make it 0. So all inputs are forced to 0 and let's run for two clocks. Okay now let me remove the reset. Now let me write some data to the FIFO. Okay so let's make it rising edge. Let me run for 5 nanoseconds more. Okay so this is where I'm going to Place my first data, so in that let me write 100 and sine decimal and sorry

I'll just go on stand 100 and sines decimal and data valid is 1, okay so I made it after this clock has effectively so it might be getting written here. So let me write some more data, so I'm writing 100 let me write 123, send decimal, okay, response 10, let's write and send decimal 225. Okay let me write three data, so in this clock on this clock the 255 might be getting stoked, I don't have any more data so let me make in data valid zero. So remember this signal is getting connected to right enable of the FIFO and this is connected to the data IN, so they might be getting stored there.

Now let me try to read from the FIFO, so for that I need to make this signal high. So, first constant read I made it high and you can see the first data came out. So I made the read enable high after this clock edge and the data is coming only on the next clock edge. So this makes one clock latency for reading. Now if you keep on making the read signal high so it will keep on giving you data now. OK, so one interesting thing is maybe we'll see how signals are coming out of FIFO also. So let me make a divider here and FIFO you can add the FIFO signals also here.

Yeah, so as I said before this in data valid is connected to write enable so you can see they are the same and DIN and INDATA they are the Redenable, Reddata, Reddata are the same, and D-out and Outdata are the same. So let me run once more and you will see as soon as okay I can't see the previous signal here but if I restart simulation you'll be seeing the empty signal it becomes high as soon as this last data comes out now FIFO is empty and you are re-enabled, you are keeping it asserted but this data will not change because the FIFO is empty.

The last data is already here okay so let me show it to you once again read data for first constant to zero okay so let Me write one more data now you'll see the empty signal is high So in that force constant let's write 300, in that force constants, oh because we have only 8 bit okay so this is the maximum value. So let's write 3 to 30 and in that valid constant 1, and then for 1 clock okay look at the empty So, on this clock it might be getting stored. So I'm making it 0 here because I have only one data to write.

So let's see. See? On that clock edge, slightly after that clock edge the empty signal became high because the FIFO is no more empty you have one data in the FIFO. Okay? OK, maybe one more interesting thing this is what I was trying to mention although this is behavioral simulation the Xilinx IP they have some timing information so you'll see that empty is not becoming low at the clock edge it is happening slightly after the clock edge because practically this is how it happens right So there will be some clock to output delay, so MD is becoming low only after the clockage, even in functional simulation.

It is supposed to change all the clockage. They are using some time information here also. Anyway, now let me try to read, read data for constant 1.0, okay? So data might be coming on the next clock. I wanted to read only one data so I'm making it high and I am making it low. The data came out here, 230, and along with that data, empty also became high saying like the 55 is empty. Now if you want to see the full signal going high, you will have to write 1024 data because that's the capacity of the flip-flop So if you write 1024 data like this Or I can just try it. I can make in data valid one and run for 1024.0 nanosecond One shot same data is getting returned to Everywhere, you will see 1024 data gets stored, the full signal became.

So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, UART, ILA, UART. OK, so remember to do this generate before you run the simulation. Otherwise also if you click simulate first he will run this generation and then only the simulation will run. So he will generate this new.tcp file and you'll see like Y54 underscore sim underscore netlist dot v. OK, so here generate a Verilog model for your FIFO. This is not a real synthesizable code. This is a model for your flip-flop which is used only for simulation purpose because of course for simulation you need some Verilog SARS-CoV. So he's going to use this one but this can be used only for simulation. For implementation he will directly use this Netless file.

OK, so now the synthesis of IP is completed. So if you go to instantiation template here, reload and you will see now D out he's saying it's 32 bit wide because we have changed a bit. Now in the instantiation template there is no change, there is change in command but of course the actual template hasn't changed because the name of the port is still D out. So the only difference that we need to make is in our source code, this out data should be now 31 bit. Right? Because this is 31 bit so our data should be also 31 bit.

Okay save it and go back to run simulation and since you changed the source code You need to relaunch simulation, click this button to relaunch. And you can see here also he automatically changed it. Okay so restart, first clock, at 01 10 nanoseconds reset. So you will see like he's already saying it is empty at the beginning because there is no data in the FIFO. VDS at reset, okay, let me turn on nanosecond each time, let's go to the first page. Okay, let me write the first data so in that first constant let's write in hex so that things will be clear now, F5, okay, in that a valid first constant one, okay, so I wrote F5 here next I'm writing first constant, F1. Now you will notice previously as soon as you write

the first data your MD used to get de-asserted saying like the FIFO has some data but not now okay why because now your read width is 32 that means for making one read you need at least 4 write operations, ok? Because 4 write operations will constitute 4 bytes and as far as the read port is concerned 1 read is 4 bytes 32 bit. Ok so unless there is 32 bit data inside the FIFO he cannot read that's why the empty is still showing high, he's still empty you cannot still read because not enough data. The first constant, let me call it 12, okay, and the fourth constant.

Okay, 4E. Okay. Let me write one more. Force constant FF. Okay, I'm done with writing so valid signal force constant zero. Now if you come here as soon as i write the fourth one the empty signal became low saying like he has some data now let's see what data comes out when i am reading so one okay and high here I will make it high for one more, ok. You'll see this is the D out here also you can see this is the d out let's make it in hex so the data is FIF1124E which is these four bytes combined okay so your right width is 8 but when you're red you got 4 bytes in one shot so this makes it a symmetric FIFO. Now this FIFO will not come out until you write three

more bytes, only once he gets four bytes he can make one grid. So this data came out along with that you'll see the empty signal also came out basically he's saying like you have no more 32 bit data in the FIFO I hope you understood it. So more IPs we might be using as we go along. So the most frequently used ones are FIFOs, as I mentioned. Another one that we frequently use are RAMS, the memory itself. Okay? So you may have to build small memory inside your IP especially if you're doing image processing, video processing applications like that. Maybe you want to initially buffer Some image data before processing it. So the difference between FIFO and our traditional memory is in FIFO.

If you store some data, you can read it only once. Once you read it from the FIFO, it is out of FIFO but there are scenarios where you want to store data for quite a long time and you want to read multiple times from the memory. For example if you're sorting numbers, You may have to read same number many times from the memory. In that case, FIFO may not be appropriate because you can't read only once from FIFO. In that cases instead of FIFO you will have to implement a small RAM so if you go here and search for RAM you'll see like RAMS and ROM and you can choose either distributed memory generator means he is going to make RAM using Lattice and FIFO, or block memory generator. He is going to make the RAM using the built-in

block RAM. Another frequently used one is PLL so we have to search for clock King-Vizard. So this IP is used for the clock frequency. So remember when we did the SPI controller my input clock frequency was 100 then I'm using some logic I converted into 10 megahertz. But that is not a right way of doing it. A clock is a special signal, you should not use a logic to convert it into higher frequency or lower frequency. So we have to use some built-in circuits inside the FPGA to do it and usually in the science FPGA they have two built-in small components to do this clock conversion. One is called a PLL, Phase Lock Loop, other Another one is called MNCM, Mixed Mobile Clock Manager.

So if you want to use them, of course you cannot infer them through your Vilo code, you should call this IP wizard and instantiate that. So for example here, you can see the clock wizard and I can say like my input clock frequency is 100 megahertz and you can choose what is your desired output clock frequency. I can say Y decide output clock frequency is 10 megahertz. So he takes a 100 megahertz clock and gives you 10 megaherz output, right? So 100 megaherz goes like this, 10 megaherts comes like that. The interesting thing is one such IP can give you up to seven independent clocks.

So here I need 10 megahert, I also need 20 megahertz here. You can do it, I need 50 megahertz, that will come through here. So that's the beauty of this. Okay? So he can give you up to seven different... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, UART, ILA-S and your code, so details we will discuss at that point in time. Okay thank you.
