Hello all, in the previous tutorial we have seen how to use Xilinx IP core especially the Xilinx FIFO in your design. So in this tutorial we are going to design an IP core which will be using these five first internally. So we are aiming to develop an IP for doing the merge operation. So merge operation is an important part in Merge Sort operation you might have seen it which is a algorithm for merging numbers. So this is the aim, so you are given two sorted arrays okay so you already have two arrays which are already sorted in our case we are assuming ascending order your aim is to combine these two arrays and make it into a single array and this single array should be also

sorted in ascending order. For example, if this is my first array and if this is the second array once I do the merge operation, this should be the resulting array. Now we are going to do a hardware IP implementation which will do this merging part and the arrays which have to be merged will be sent from the processor to our IP and when the processor reads back The array, it should get this merged array. Now this is the general algorithm for the merge operation. So I am taking the same arrays in the previous slide.

So what you will do is you'll always compare only the first element of both arrays and whichever element is smaller, you will take it out of this array and put it in the new array which will store the merged array. So in this case you compare 1 and 3, and 1 is smaller so you take 1 out of here and put it here. So that these 5 will become the next first element of this array then you will compare 5 and 3 and 3 is smaller and you will take 3 out of here, and put here so on and so forth. So you will continue this until either both arrays become empty or one of the arrays become empty. In our case, the second array became empty and the first array still has two elements.

So which array is not empty? In this case you will continuously read from there because there is nothing in the second array for comparison. You continuously read from the non-empty array and fill the merged array and you'll have the merged array. So this is the general algorithm for merge operation. So when we do the software development from SDK point of view, this is what we are going to do. The processor it will first send the first array and the address to which he will write his base address plus 12 then he will send the second array which will be base address plus 16 he will write to that address then the processor will configure Control register, we are assuming Base Address Plus Zero register to indicate that the IP can

start merge operation, that the processor has finished sending both arrays to the processor. And processor will keep on porting the status register which we assume Base Address Plus Four to check whether IP has finished the merge operation and once the status register indicates So this is what we will follow when we develop the SDK. Now these are the register map, the addresses and the name of the registers, whether they are read-write or read-only write-only, and what each register will be doing. Okay so we have a lot of data here, but I want to show you how to do that.

So let's go back to the first one. So if you look at the first one, So we have control register, status register, merge register, array 1 register and array 2 register. Now only one address per array is exposed to the processor for writing the two initial array as well as for reading from the merged array. But a single array will be composed of multiple elements you have seen it. OK so whenever the processor writes to address C or 1 0, these are all available in the same way. So whenever the processor writes to address C or 1-0, these two array1 and array2 registers, what we'll do is instead of storing that elements in a register, we will be internally storing them into FIFOs.

Okay? So internally it's a FIFO but from the processor point of view, it will be seen as a single address. Now similarly when the processor reads from the merged array each time he reads from address 8, we will be reading the merged array from a FIFO and sending it to the processor. Now since this is a hardware implementation there is no dynamic allocation possible in real sense so we'll have to limit the maximum size of the arrays which our Vocabulary, ILA, XSCT, SD card, ILA- Start signal is coming from the control register, which should be set by the processor once both arrays are sent to IP. Then he will come to the compare state and he will compare the output

from both VIFOs and whichever is smaller one, he will write it to a third flip-flop, which is called our merge flip-flop. So this operation keeps on continuing as long as either both VIFOS become empty or one of the VIFOS become empty. If both of them are empty we will So, we will directly go to the DUN state and we will make the DUN signal high here and remain in this state as long as the start signal remains 1. So eventually the start signal will become 0 that we will implement and in that case we will go back to the idle state.

So if we don't wait for the start signal to become zero, and if you directly go from down to idle state, you will be some kind of infinite state machine because the previous start signal may be still one and you will continue going to the next state. So you should come to that unstate and wait until this signal becomes zero. Now if only one of the FIFOs become empty, you will go to this state, flash FIFO, and you will continuously reading from that non-empty FIFO and keeps on writing to the merge FIFO. So once again both FIFOs become empty, you will go to the done state and eventually you will go back to the active state. Okay so this is the theory behind it

now we will see how to do the actual hardware implementation. So in Vivado you can open any project maybe either existing one or new one because I'm going to choose a create new IP So I'm going to tools, create and package new IP, and I am choosing create new XC4-Pitiferal, let me call it, merge IP, and i'm going to store it in my IP-ROPO, but to keep it inside another folder, inside your IP-Ropo. And XC-Lite, number of registers, ok so from register map we can see we need 5 registers So the IP template comes up, which we have seen before.

So if you wish, you can write your entire code in this file itself, merge 0xi.v file. Now, if you will write it here, the main issue is if I want to simulate my IP, If I want to send data to my IP or if I want read data from my IP, to simulate my IP, if I want to send data to my IP or if I want to read data from my IP, I will have to follow the AXI protocol because this module has AXI interface. Which is slightly complicated. We won't be able to do it only using waveform forcing. You may have to write some test bench.

That is one reason I won't write it directly here. Another reason again, it is always better to keep hierarchical design for, again for finding up bugs and for simulation purpose. So the entire merge IP core, the core logic, I'm going to write it in a separate VLOOK file and I will finally instantiate it here. Okay so I'm going to add a new source and then I'm calling it merge core just like core of the merge operation. OK, and in this case he will now directly show where to save your file. So what you should do is you should go to this project wherever is your current project so this is our merge, edit merge here you'll see a folder called HDL again you can store it wherever you want

but it is a good practice you put it inside the HDL folder inside your edit IP Vocabulary, ILA, ILA-S So I'm just calling it FIFO write data, this will be stored in FIFO. But we have two FIFOs actually for storing that initial that is which have to be merged. Okay so to which FIFO it should be written is designated by two control signals let me call them 541 write enable and 542 write enable So this data will go to both FIFOs but only one of these signals will be high at a time. So based on that it will get stored in that corresponding FIFO.

Now finally processor will have to read from the merge FIFO for that he is going to use merge FIFORREAD ENABLE, we can read through it and we have to provide the merge to FIFO data, so I'm going to send it through this signal and finally we have the turn signal which is coming from the state question saying like I have finished fine so this is the interface okay so next thing what I would do is anyway I know I am going to store my data in FIFO's and the merged data that is also I'm going IP core, ILA, ILA- 2 physical FIFOs. But the merge one I have to instantiate separately because our assumption is the first two FIFOs are 1024 in size remember and the merge FIFO is 2048 so there's no way to directly

parameterize it here, so you have to use the IP core generator twice. So this I'm going to call it and RFI4, we are using NATI, Korman-Kloch block RAM, OK all those remain same. Write width, OK we are going to use everything 32 bit and the depth is 1024 and read is also 32 this one. Now reset, OK let's keep it there, yeah everything else remains default. Now as per the algorithm, if you see, I have to compare the first two elements of the array, or in this case our first data coming out of the FIFO and which one is smallest.

I need to take it from the array and put it in the merged array. Okay? Now in the traditional FIFO what happens is you will get a data from the FIFO only when you make the read-enable signal high. So here you have read-enable-signal-high. And again remember there is one clock latency so you will make read enable high, only in the next clock the FIFO will see it, he will give the data and only in the subsequent clock you can take it from the FIFO. Now you can definitely do it using this FIFO but the implementation will be a little bit tricky.

Now instead of that if I choose this option first word for through my implementation will become much easier. So what happens in first word fold-through is the FIFO will prefetch the next valid data from the FIFO and he will keep it at the output. Okay so even if you don't make read enable high, whichever is the next valid data in the FIF0, the top of the FIF4, he will prefetch and he will keep it here. So when you make read enable High, what happens is he will actually prefetch The next data. So effectively you see here So, the first word for the FIFO is readlatency.

So, if you go here readlatency is 1 once I choose first word fold through you will see like the readlatency becomes 0. Okay? So, the valid data is already available at the output of the FIFO even before you make re-enable high. So, that's why he saying latency is 0. So, this will make my implementation much simpler. Okay? So, that is why we are choosing this option. First word fold through. So, remember if you choose this option the FIF0 pre-fages the next valid data and he and you will keep it at the output. OK, so choose OK.

And he'll create the FIFO generate, and while he's running it in the background, you can already go here and take the instantiation template from there and we can actually instantiate it. So that I'm instantiating here. As I said before, we need two FIFOs for storing two initial add-ins coming from the processor. So this one, let me call it RA541 and this one we will call it RA 542. Now we can do some of the port mapping so clock is both common for both. Reset again we are assuming active high reset and both FIFOs are using active high reset.

FIFO write data, this is the data coming to the FIFO, connecting it to both FIFOs. That doesn't mean all data goes to both Fifos. Which FIFO will store the data depends upon this control signal. So I'm keeping 541 write enable here, sorry, 541 write enabled here and 542 write enabled here. Now the read enable we will use it later because the state machine will be basically reading from these FIFOs So for the time being, let me disconnect them. DOUT, OK. That also will be used by the state machine. Full. We are not going to use it at all.

We are not checking whether the FIFO is off-loading. Maybe we can put that restriction in software so that the processor doesn't write more than 1024. Or if you wish, you can connect this to the status register so that the processor checks the FIFO status before sending data to the FIFor. Anyway, in the state machine, we are not going to consider this full word. Now empty that is also used by the state machine. Okay, so when necessary we will add those signals. Now let me build the merge array or merge FIFO where we will store the merged result.

The same way you can go to IP catalog again choose FIFO generator and choose merged let's call it merge54 and this is also first word for through all setting same except that up is 2048 generate the instantiation template from here let me call it merge5 itself same proc, same reset now the data to this vipo will be given by the state VIT Machine, so we'll keep them disconnected for the time being, read-enabled. So finally processor will be reading from this FIFO, so that signal we already have here, VH54-read-enable, reconnected here and VH54 read data, this is the data going to the processor, okay, full and empty again for this FIFOR we won't use. There is no way the FIFO will become full

because his capacity is double that of this one and empty again we don't care whether this flip-flop is really empty or not. Okay so that's about the instantiation now we can go ahead and start writing the state machine So we'll use the standard style of state machine, click in end If we are in reset state, we will be in the idle state. Remaining signal we will add as we go along. Else we have case state and case and we are in the idle states. Okay so as per our diagram, we are in idle state and we remain in idle state as long as 30 zero.

1 start because 1 will go to the compare state. So, start we have already declared here. So, we can just write if start, we'll change the state to compare, compare state for each. Okay so in compare state there are different cases one is as you can see here when you're doing comparison maybe both FIFOs are empty only one FIFO is empty both are not empty all different So in this case, we have to write. So first case I'm saying if both VIFOs are not empty, that means there is some valid data at the output of these VIFOs so we can compare them and we can find out whichever is the smaller one. So if VIFO1 is not empty, okay? So this is a signal I am going to use 541 empty. So let's go ahead and connect it here. 541

542-MT here, 542- MT here, let's declare them also. They are connected to the output of FIFO, so they should be wire type, 541-MT and 542-MP. Okay if both are not empty, not 542-Mt, MT, MT, P. Remember we are using first word fall through that means the output from the FIFO is already a valid data. You don't have to make the read enable high, okay? The output from FIFOs are already valid so you can directly compare them if 541 data is less than 542 data, okay? That is the first case. So data from first FIFO is smaller. What you should do? The data from the first flip-flop should be written to the merge flip-flop. So let me write merge flip-flop data is whichever is smaller one 541 data and we have to write it to the merge vifos so the

right enable of merge vifor should be very high, so let's write merge 5 4 right enable VIT, VIT, 542 data, WriteEnable again inside AlwaysBlock, WriteEnable and that is one case. Okay. Now else that means 542 is greater than or equal to both we are covering, both should be covered. So in this case just the opposite which 542 data will be 542 data and WriteEnable OK, you have to. Now what you should do? Both FIFOs are not empty so you ask to write them. Compare them, you made the right enable high then you have to read the next data from the FIFO as well as you need to write it to the merge FIFO.

So we have made the right enabled signal high and it should be made high only for one clock cycle otherwise same data will get written multiple times. Also you have to get the next data from the FIFO. If you want to get the Next Data, So, you are reading from 541. Okay? So next data should be prefetch by 541. So 541, read-enable should be made high. So I will say 541, Read-Enable is 1, take B1 and similarly if you run from 542, you need to prefetch next data from 542. So 542, read- enable should be made So we can connect them here 541, Redenable, and this is 542, Redenable.

And we can declare them again with register. Now we are going to the right state. So in right state what you should do? You made the Redenable high and in the next clock you will see it and you should make it back to zero. So we don't care which Redenable was high in the previous state We are making both read and enable 0, but whichever was high it becomes 0 which was already 0, it remains 0. Same way here before write enable was high, that means next clock he will write it into the 5-4 so after this clock edge This should be made to 0 and you will go back to the compare state like here.

So all those things we didn't write and we are going back to the compared state. Substate back to... Okay, but Compensate is not completed. We looked at only one case when both FIFOs are not empty. Now next case possible is if both FIFO's are empty that is five for one empty as well as five for two empty. If both are empty, here we have it. When you're comparing both are empty you can directly go to the so-called the done state. Okay, so we can go to state is... We can write done state now itself. Okay, so what should happen in done state?

Done state. So in the done state we will make the done signal high. Done signal high. So we will make a DUN point to be 1 and we will remain in this state as long as the start signal is high. So once the start signal becomes low, we'll make the DUN signal back to 0 and we'll go back to the... You don't have to explicitly write if start is high, remain in DUN. So this implicitly states that is the case. Start is 0, you will go back to the IDC. Okay so that's about that and the next possible case is only one of the five fours is empty okay so else if five four one empty since you have the condition five four one not empty five four two not empty at the beginning and five four one empty five four to empty here this

implicitly means five four one is empty but five four two is not empty so what So remember, 541 is empty. That means you need to keep on reading from 542 and writing to the merge 542. Okay so we'll make 542 read enable high in this case because 541 is empty. Similarly, L-C542 empty and 541 is not empty. Again, So, we will go to the same state, Flush FIFO. But you will keep on reading from FIFO1 and keep on writing to the Mesh FIFO Okay so you made this signal high and he'll see the signal only in the next one but this FIFO He has already prefetch some data and it is actually available at the output, at this point of time.

So in the flash flip-flop state, again what you will do is similar cases if both are empty, 541 and 542 are empty, this one. If both are empty you can go to the done state and maybe you were reading from 541, 544 in the previous state so we need to make all of them 0. So 541 should be 0, 542 should be 0 and in the previous case you might be writing to the merge 541, so that signal should be also made to 0 then you will go to the top state. Else if only 541 is empty like this case So you keep on again reading from 542 and you will remain in the same state but remember you are coming from this state to this state so this FIFO already has some data at the output, the prefetch one that should be written to the merge FIFO

OK, so we need to make merge54ite-enable 1 here and merge54data, 542 is empty. So it should be data coming from 542, 542 data. Same scenario if 542 is empty, 542 isn't even if you don't have the signal it's perfectly fine because we 542 is empty, so this will be 541 data. That's it! That completes our state machine. Now a lot of errors they are showing because we have to declare a lot of signals. So first thing state. So we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 states. So we need two bits for states. So let's make Ratch1 down to 0 states and all the states we have to declare as local param. Local param IDL, HDT0, then we have compare, D1, we have flush, 542, D2, we have write, D3, then we

have done, D4. Okay now 541 data, 542 data these we have to declare, okay 541 data is This is the output from the first flip-flop, this is the output form the second flip-flop. They are outputs so they should be declared as wire type. They are 32 bit wide, VIFO1 data and flip-flop Okay similarly turn signal okay that is inside state machine so they should be declared as a regtype. Another thing inside reset we need to initialize all the control signals, like 541, read-enabled, 542, read-enable, all of them should be initialized to 0 and merge before byte enable.

Only the control signal. Not the data signal. Data signal you can initialize but not mandatory. So these two are controlled, similarly our DUN signal is also a control signal. Okay so that completes our core logic for merge operation now we can go ahead and simulate and see whether it is really working or not. So for simulation first you should go to settings and choose the top module for simulation because we have multiple modules here so go to simulation and top module it has merge core okay and run a simulation behavioral simulation Okay, so the waveform window shows the top level signals from the merge core let's add the signals SoC, let's restart the simulation, play the clock, let's give 100 MHz, turn on a second,

Let's keep the reset applied initially and hold the control signal to low value. So start we will make 0, write that as it doesn't matter let's put 0, right enable 0 to both VIFOs and read enable also 0. OK, so let's run for a few blocks. OK, so lets remove the reset signal. Now let's write to the first flip-flop, so I'm going to use the same values that we have here. I'm first going to write these values to the first FIFO then I will write these values to the second FIFO. CAS, so I'll make a 5 for 1, write enable high and first data is 1, 1, 1 clock, next data is 5, 1,5 and 6 are 9, 16, 25, 32.

So after that I can make a five four right table. Okay, so if I go to the signals going to five four one you can see the same signals are going to five for one and if you look at the empty signal you will see at this point empty got de-asserted okay so it's not happening on the next clock itself so there is some latency between we write data to the FIFO and when the empty will get DSS. But one interesting thing is this DOUT, you can see it already became one because it's a first word for through so he prefetch this data and he already kept it at DOUT even before it enable his high. So same way you can write to the next flip-flop, so you need to make 542 write enable high and 35710 and 120.

So in a real case the processor will be writing these values through the AXI interface. Okay, same data should be going to the second flip-flop. So you'll see the first data is also coming here where the write signal is low because we connected the same data signal to both VIFOs directly and the same data. Fine, and his output already became 3. The next signal that we have to assert is the start signal because you have already filled both VIFOS now you can ask the state machine to run for that we will make the start signal high.

Now the state machine should be running you can see the states should be changing because 0.1.3, it keeps on running I'm not checking whether each state is correct, I'm running it until the turn signal becomes high so you can see he's writing something to the merge VIFOS, he's reading from different VIFOS and here you can see the first 542 became empty and after that he kept on reading from 541 and finally 541 also became empty. And the turn signal also became high here. OK, that means he finished the merge operation.

Now in a processor scenario, what should happen is he'll be stuck at the... He went back to the idle state here. So you can see from state 2, he again went back to idle state. It shouldn't be happening as per our state machine. So if I go and check my state, I can find the error So I made the state only 2-bit, that means it can take values only from 0 to 3, you have value till 4. So this should have been 2 down to 0, 3-bit state. Now you have to relaunch the simulation and rerun but I hope things are working. So what I'm doing is trying to read from the merge before and see whether data is coming out or not.

OK, so in this case what happened was he didn't go to the Duns... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, ILA, ILA-STATE, ILA. Instead he directly went to the ILA-State back. But he is no longer writing to the Merge FIFO because both the array FIFOs are empty. So the data should be already in the Merge FIFO. Let's see. So here data is coming out of the Merge FIFO. Okay. This is first word fall through, so although you are making read enable high here, the output is already valid here. So it is 1, 3, 5, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 16, 20, 25, 32. So if I compare it with that, that is exactly the order. So our state machine is working only issue was the bit width was less but it was a mistake. So we need to make it three. Now if you rerun

from here and I will put it inside this logic maybe towards the end and we call it merge core, some signals we can already connect. Clock signal we can directly connect to the XA clock, reset this is active high but XA reset is active low so we need to invert and connect it. Start signal, OK? So if you look at the architecture, start signal should be coming from the control register. This one. So we are going to connect the 0 bit of control register to the start signal. OK. So what should happen is when the processor arrives to address 0 which is our slave range 0, the bit 0 will be connected here. So I will take the slave range 0 and

I will assign something like FSM start equal to 0 bit of this register and this FSM start I will declare it as a wire and I will connect that signal here. Now the requirement is something like that, so the processor will write 1 to this control register, it will start the state machine and once the sorting is over Your hardware should clear this bit. So this is like set by software and cleared by hardware. We need to look at the logic where processor is writing to the slaveredge 0, that is this one. As per this logic only processor can write to slaveredge0 but our requirement is processor will be writing to it, hardware will be clearing to it. So I am moving slaveredge zero out

So this is the output of this always block and I'm keeping it outside and I will say OK, so this condition is same as before. Slaverage write enable and XC address is 0. Whatever data is coming from the processor will go to slaverage 0. But at the same time once the state machine is done which is indicated by this signal, time signal. So let me connect a wire there, so it's done. Once this Tignal is high. It should clear the control register, so this is how I'm going to modify it. So if this condition happens, I will directly make the slaveH0-0 else if processor is writing, whatever data processor is sending, I'll write here.

So the hardware clearing has higher priority over software writing. OK, that's it. And we need to remove slaveH0 from everywhere here. Otherwise, it will give multiple driver data. OK, so that one is taken care of. We need to declare it as an output from our IP, so it should be declared as wire type. Next one is before write data. So the data coming from the processor should be going to the VIFOS. So I will directly take the XE data, I data and I'll connect it there. So I'll take XE write data and I will directly connect it here.

Now 541 write enable, the requirement is only when the processor writes to address C that data should go to the 541. So here we have the code. So this address you need to divide by 4, so this is 12 by 4, 3. We need to see where 3 is here. This is the case where processor is writing to this particular address. So I am going to modify. So what I will say is something similar to this. I will take this and I'm going to call this signal 541 write enable if reset is 30, 0, else if processor is writing to address 3 in that case I will make the signal high all other case This signal will be 0.

OK, so when our processor is writing to address 3, so here it is 12C, this signal will become high. We have already connected the write data to that FIFO input. So this signal will also go to FIFO and the AXI data will get stored in the FIFO. FIFO1 write enable we will connect here. Same way, FIFO2 write enable we'll connect here and we will declare both of them. They are inside Always block, so, Right-Type, RightEnable, and 542, RightEnable. Now instead of a register I have replaced it with a FIFO So you can remove the SlaveRage 3 from here.

SlaveRage3 can go. And same way this will be 16 and here it is Slaverage 4. So same logic you can replicate for FIFO2 write enable, FIFO 2 write enable, when the processor writes to address 4. This can also go from here. We don't know we don't need those registers even if you keep them there it's perfectly fine and the processor is writing it will go to the FIFO as well as it will get stored in some register but for saving some resources, some free flow you can just delete them from here. You can delete their declaration also even if you don't declare remove them the tool will automatically remove it when it finds like you are not using these registers here. Fine so next signal here ILA, SMERS5-4 read enabled. Again look at the requirement.

When the processor reads from address 8, so here address 2, it should be reading from the merge register. Okay, so we have to create a signal here, let's call it merged-FIFO-read-enable and this signal should become high only when the processor is reading from address 2. 2, okay so we can simply write an assigned statement for that, assigned VHV4-ReadEnable equal to, this is the read logic. So this is basically saying processor wants to read, processor wants to read and the address he's reading from is equal to 2. This is enough you can either write this way or you can write this way also but this is So only when the processor reads from address to, this signal will become high.

In all other cases, this signal remains low so we can connect that and again, I'll send statements or declare as a wire. Now we have merge54 read data. So when the processor is reading from this address it should get the data from the merge FIFO. Now, if you look at the code here when the processor is reading from address 2 he's going to get data from slave-rej2 that is not the case he should get the data coming out of this FIFO so simply connect this again this logic will work only if your merge FIFO is also first word for through otherwise there will be issue of delay one-clock latency again you can do it with that, but the code will look little bit more different. Okay, so this also we need to declare

it's an output, so it should be wired and status register that is the only remaining thing. So remember status register it should become one, the least significant bit when the DUN signal becomes high from the state machine and the status register will be cleared by the processor So we'll take it from here, and then we will take it from the hardware. So usually again status is set by hardware, cleared by software. For control register it is usually set by software but cleared by hardware. Now the status register is 4, that means address 1 here, this one.

So instead of only processor writing to it, we need some processor and hardware, so Slavery1, Slavery2, Slavery3, Slavery4, Slavery5, Slavery1. If done, Slavery 1 will become 1. And when the processor is writing to address 1, whatever the processor is writing will come to that register so you can remove this one also. Now Slavery 2 here is address 8, okay which represents the merge FIFO. Okay so the processor is not supposed to write to that merge FIFO that's why it is written this is only a read-only address processor is only supposed to read from that register so in this particular implementation if the processor writes to that address what happens is it will get stored in this register but when the processor reads

So, the results from address 2 we have already changed our logic. He is going to read from the FIFO. So this is a redundant logic here. You don't need this register. So effectively that entire or this block goes away. Now reading part, OK. So you go from Control Register, 1 from Status Register, this is from Merge 54, 3 and 4 which are 12 and 16 These two registers, processor, it is only supposed to write to those registers He's not supposed to read from that because these are the internal FIFOs So as per current logic he will try to read from these registers by default they'll be 0 so he'll always get 0 So you can actually remove So we have to repackage it. So we go to component.xml and merge file. Now if you look at the sources

here, you'll see he actually included your core, this Verilog file and these two template files. Unfortunately, he hasn't included the files for the FIFO. Okay? These are the.xia files, Xilinx core-inserted file. These files should be also made part of your IP. Otherwise, later when you implement, Vivado will give an error saying like he cannot find the source code for the FIFO's. So he is not automatically doing it. I don't know maybe in the new Vivado, he may be automatically doing it so what you should do is you should go back to tools and create and package IP, and this time you should choose package your current project next and choose include XEA file.

So once you do it, you will see those files are also made part of your IP. So it should be done like this, otherwise later it will give error. OK, so you are done. Now you can close this project and open a new project and add this IP and test it. OK, so I'm going to start a new project. Let me call it merge-test.directory. You can close this project. First thing, I am adding my repository here where I have gapped on my IPs. OK. OK, next we will add our merge IP. Merge. Just choose connection automation. So this is like all of our previous project. One thing that we could have done is synthesize this merge IP from our previous project just to check whether there are any syntax errors. OK? That

would have been good. Otherwise if there are some syntax error you'll get error now so we have to go back and correct it there and repackage IP. So let's hope there are no errors. And let's go to address editor, everything looks fine. So you can create HDL wrapper, and you can choose IP and choose generate output products. OK, once that is over you can export your hardware to SDK SoC, I'm not writing it as a driver, I just want to test the core. If you are interested you can make it like a proper driver. So I'm going to use the same example for testing also. So first I am creating these two arrays. Sending the first one to my IP For Intine, address is base address plus first address C. Now we will send the secondary which

is 10. Next we need to set the control register to start so it's address plus 0, base address, we set the control adjuster now we need to wait for the status register to become 1. So 32 status, and status, 32 base address plus zero status, this one plus four. And while status is zero, key poll. And once status register becomes one we will read it and store it in another array. Let's call it 32C, whose size will be the sum of these two. 13I, Pays at Rust, and finally let's print it. Now you can print it. Actually you don't have to store it, you can directly print it if you wish here.

Okay so that's... That's it. So this makes our basic software, U.H. And this gives our basic software. Apparently you need to generate bitstream and once it is completed we can test it on hardware. And bitstream generation is completed. So I'm programming my hardware first from Vivado because we didn't export the bitstream to SDK. I'm setting the tarrator, and in SDK, I'm making neuron configuration, and then directly run it. And you can see the result here which is exactly same as the expected one and the same as the one in simulation. So I hope this gives you an idea of how to build your own IP which uses other Xilinx IP internally and how to build a complete system. Thank you.
