Hello, in the next tutorial I will be showing you how to do communication between the processor and the peripheral based on interrupt signaling. Before that I would like to give you some background on interrupts. This has nothing specific to do with Zynq and I'll be giving the general overview of intros which are used in all processor-based systems. So as you So to know the processor in a computer, it has to manage several peripherals. It has to manage maybe communication devices, timers, input-output devices, data transfer devices etc.

Now most of these peripheral devices they are quite slow compared with the speed of the processor. So what happens if the processor waits for one of the peripherals to finish its task before serving another peripheral? So in that case the overall system performance will come down. For example if you have a printer you know which is a mechanical device and you ask the printer for printing something and if you wait for the printer to finish that printing operation before doing something, the overall system performace comes down. So what you prefer is you want to do the print operation in parallel, you want your computer to do other things.

So there are mainly two ways of communication between the peripheral and the processor for synchronization. So one method is polling, which we have discussed before. So in polling what happens is the processor keeps on checking the peripheral to decide whether the peripheral has finished a particular task or not. So this is usually done with the help of a status register so the peripheral will store its current status in the status register. For example, it has finished doing merge operation like our previous IP. So the processor will be keep on reading from the status register and whenever the status register changes, the processor understands like he has finished processing something like that.

Now this is similar to you are waiting for your friend and you keep on asking your friend like whether he has starter or not. Okay? So that is a analogy for POLY. Now this style of synchronization is very slow because the processor is stuck in checking the status of a particular processor instead of doing some useful work. The processor, he's supposed to do some processing but here he's not doing any processing, he just keeps on reading the status register. Now to avoid this bottleneck we have the concept of intro. So the basic idea here is Instead of the processor, keep on checking the peripheral. The peripheral will inform the processor once he has finished a task or in any case if the peripheral requires some attention

he will inform the process instead of the processor checking the peripheral each time. Now this is done through a hardwired signal so there will be dedicated wire going from the This is the pictorial representation of it. So we have a processor and we have three peripherals here, which are connected to the system bus And this is the so-called the interrupt signal, which is coming from this peripheral all the way to the processor. So you then have interrupt coming from all the peripherals if they want to get the processor attention.

Now what happens when the processor receives an interrupt? So, what happens is once the processor gets the interrupt it will complete the current instruction which it is executing and it will push the program under to the stack memory and he will service the interrupt. So basically servicing the interrupt basically means executing a set of instructions predefined So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ILA, ILA, So the first thing that you will be doing is to disable the particular interrupt which caused this ISR to run.

We are doing it so that while running the current ISR, if one more new interrupt comes, the ISR will be re-invoked. So this will cause some kind of nesting operation. So you are running an ISR and before finishing that new interrupt game, so you will run again an ISR then again interrupt comes so on and so forth. So this becomes like a nesting operation if that is fine again depends upon the implementation we will handle it like that but in most cases we don't want a new interrupt to come while we are executing a particular ISR. So we will disable VIRIFRL, the corresponding interrupt which caused this ISR to run. Then maybe we will check the status register of the VIRIFERL to check what goes this

interrupt because not only task completion other things can also create interrupt generally if some error happens like you might have seen like the printer the paper got jammed or things like that this can also create interupt signal so We will read the status register from the peripheral and check what caused this intro And based on the value in the status register, we will take the necessary action If it is the completion of the operation, we will decide what to do next whether to ask to have a new task or if it is any error, how to correct that error, things like that So once that intro is serviced, we will re-enable the intro and the ISR will be returned.

Now, ISRs are usually very time critical piece of code. So usually we don't write print statement things like that inside ISR. We need to finish the ISR as soon as possible because we have disabled this intro so we need to finish it and re-enable the intro as soon as possible. So that's why we usually do not put print operations things like that Now how do we link a particular ISR with a particular intro? So as I mentioned before, each intro signal has a corresponding intro service routine. So how the processor links these two things so that is done through something called as an intro vector table or IVT. So in the intro Vector Table, okay so this is usually predefined. What is predefined is the starting address of the

ISR for the corresponding intro, okay? So as I mentioned before, ISRs also are also functions but they won't be stored at random location in the memory instead they'll be stored in predefined location. So if it is like if this particular interrupt comes IOSR for that interrupt is starting at this particular memory location. So that is predefined through this table and the processor will be knowing this table and based on this table, the corresponding interrupt is linked with the corresponding ISR. Now in this picture you can see we have one more peripheral sitting here written PIC it's called a Programmable Interrupt Control.

So what usually happens is the number of interrupt pins available on the processor will be quite limited. For example, if you take 8051, you have only two pins dedicated for external interrupt signal. So if you are directly connecting your peripheral to the processor at the most you can connect only two peripherals but usually you may have tens of peripherals so you won't be able to directly connect the interrupt signal to the processor. So what you will do is, you'll have a dedicated chip if you are going with a known SoC implementation, something called as an Interop Controller or Programmable Interop Controller, Adjourned Interop Controller.

Different kinds of chips are coming. What this chip does is he will aggregate all the interrupt signals from the peripherals and he will apply a single interrupt to the processor. So if any of the peripherals make an intro, the PIC will send an intro to the processor. Then the processor will check the PIC or the intro controller to find out who generated this intro. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, ILA, UART, ILA- Connecting to PAC will have a number associated with that which we call as the interrupt request number.

So, in modern systems these numbers are assigned during the boot operation when we go to the ZYNC design you will see that is assigned at the design time itself. So this number, these are unsigned integer values and they help to determine which particular peripheral raised on interrupt. So each peripheral will have a unique IRQ number. Now if you see IRQ number 120 doesn't mean it is the 120th peripheral or 120th wire coming that is not the idea. Usually, the IRQ number is assigned based on the preference. So the most critical interrupt will have a smaller IRQ number. If you look at our modern system, IRQ number 0 will be usually assigned to the system timer which basically decides

the scheduling between the operating system and your other software and IRQ number 1 is always So, the first step is to use the keypad. The keypad is assigned to the keyboard because keyboard interrupts are very frequent and they are very time critical so on and so forth. So these numbers somehow convey the priority of the interrupt signal. So using this interrupt signal, AC will decide the corresponding interrupt service to be run and from the interrupt vector table he will find out the starting address of this particular interrupt. The last slide is on interrupt sensitivity okay so when a peripheral rises an interrupt signal the CPU or the interrupt controller can detect this

Vitis levels sensitive, that means it will detect when the signal is constantly high or constantly low. Again these settings you'll be able to do by configuring certain registers in the intro controller. Okay so this is the general overview of intro now how this is configured how to use the intro controller of Zynq etc we will be seeing in our next tutorial thank you.
