Hello all, in this tutorial we are going to design a system which used Interrupt-based synchronization between a peripheral and the processor. So I am going to use the same merge IP that we designed in the previous tutorial as an example. So I will modify my design IP core first in such a way that the IP will generate an interrupt signal once it finishes the merge operation. So I am directly opening the edit project which was generated in the last tutorial Okay, so this is the source code So at the top I'm going to add one more signal in the topmost file Let's call it output High integer To indicate it as an interrupt signal. Now let me connect it to this lower module and declare it here also.

OK, so we need to decide under what condition our peripheral should interrupt the processor. So as far as our merge IP is concerned, the only condition under which the IP should interrupt the processer is when it has finished the merge operation. We are not taking care of any exception cases or any error cases. So the only condition on which the IP So, basically this signal should go high once we finish the merge operation. So where can we connect this signal? So you can connect this signal either to the bit 0 of status register because we have made the design in such a way that once the DUNS signal comes high, the status register bit 0 becomes high so we can directly connect this signal to the status register with 0 or you can connect this signal directly to the DUN signal also because DUN signal becomes high once the merger operation is over. Now we would prefer to connect it to the status register because if you remember, the DUNS signal is coming from the state machine that signal goes high which will make the start bit go low which will eventually make the DUNs signal to go low okay so if you remember the state machine, that is how we are on the state here So we are making the DUN signal high. In the next clock cycle, this will make the start signal low because our control register makes the start signal look once it sees the DUN signal is high so that in the subsequent clock the DUN signals become slow.

So actually DUN signals remain high only for two clock cycles. So in many a system there is a minimum pulse width requirement for the interrupt signal also like Interop should be high at least for so many clock cycles, for the interop controller to detect it. For ZYNC I need to check the value usually like 12 clock cycle, 1 machine cycle it should be high. So our done is a quite short pulse so we will not prefer to connect this to the done. So instead we will connect it to the status register bit 0 because once that bit becomes high, it remains high as long as the processor comes and plays it.

Okay so I'm assigning this signal you can write wherever you want let's write it here. Assign interrupt equal to status register is our slave rich one, slave rich one of C. OK, so once the merge operation is over this will become high which will cause these to become high and it is supposed to eventually interrupt the processor. Now for the interrupt to go away, for the signal to go low, processor should make this bit equal to 0. That will do from the software. So once you have done this much you can go ahead and repackage your IP because you have changed the source In the GUI you will see it has this interrupt on the right side because it's an output signal from your IP and go ahead and repackage.

Now I am going to use this IP in the same Vivado project which I generated in the previous tutorial, Block-design, So, let's go ahead and open that project. So now you will see the interrupt line at the output of our IP. Now, you need to connect this interrupt to the processor. Now if you take Zynq and if you double click it, you'll see something called GIC, generic interrupt controller. Okay? So GIC is part of your PS. So this is similar to the PAC, Programmable Interrupt Controller which I showed in the previous presentation.

and here they are calling it the GIC, Gender Interrupt Controller. So this is the one who will accept the interrupt line from the PN and will eventually give it to the processor. So this is inside the PS but this is not part of the core processor you will see. Okay so this GAC is actually interfaced with the cores from the processor point of view. This is also a peripheral, so this is also memory map from the processor points of view so that he can read and write from the GAC. So you double click on GIC and you will see by default interrupts are not enabled here.

So you click it fabric interrupt, and now we are doing a PL to PS interrupt. So you expand this one and check this option IRQ F2P15 down to 0. So basically you can connect up to 16 peripherals to this GIC which will be eventually connected to the processor. OK, so these are the IRQ numbers which will be assigned to these interrupts and what number he is going to assign we will see later. So it is written like when you're connecting multiple interrupt, MSB is assigned the highest interrupt ID of 91. So the leftmost one will have 91, rightmost one will has 61.

We only have one interrupt line currently, so obviously it will be connected to the bit zero here. Now there are other interrupt signals also, these are like dedicated interrupt directly going to the processor as private interrupts and you can see their IRK numbers are already pre-assigned, so we are not using them, we are actually connecting them through the GAC OK, so choose this option and click OK. And now you will see this IRQ port comes up here. Since you have only a single interrupt line, we can directly drag and drop it here.

It will directly get connected. Now if you have multiple peripherals with interrupt, you won't be directly connect them here because here it is like an array, it is like a bus and here these are like individual wire so you will have to concatenate these wires into a single bus, okay? Single set of... physically they are still wires, okay? But from block design point of view you can only connect buses of equal width. So here it is only one bit wide and here it can be 16 bit wide. So you cannot directly drag and drop them. So you need to use a special IP on the Concatenation IP that is also available from Xilinx. So, that IP will concatenate these multiple

interrupt wires to a single bus you can actually search here on catenet, the Concat IP, this IP using this you have to aggregate all these interrupt signals together and then connect it here in this case I don't have to do it because I have only a single interrupt line okay so that's So that's it from the hardware point of view, this is the only design change. The major change will be in the software. So you'll save your block design and you can go ahead and generate bitstream. But although we haven't added any new IP and there is no change in the address map things like that, You still need to export your hardware to SDK now because the IRQ number for this interrupt is not updated in the X-parameters.h header file.

Only if you export it now, he's going to update that file there so that you'll know what is the XR-IRQ number assigned for this interrupt signal. So you need to generate output product first. For KEN, you can export hardware, export hardware. You'll want already there is a HDF file there but you are all writing it and you can launch SDK and parallelly you can give generate bitstream here. Okay so this is our previous code and in this code you can see this is the place where we are actually doing the polling. We keep on checking the status register to Check whether the peripheral has finished operation or not. So this is the part we would like to modify and change it into

Intrep waste. Okay, so first thing there's a standard way of again writing the Intrep service routine or how will you connect the Intrep controller things like that. So the first thing you need to add are the header files which has the driver for the GAC controller, GIC, so as I mentioned before from the processor point of view, GIC is also a memory map device. So there was a driver for this interrupt controller and this is the driver who is managing the interrupt service routine and the intro vector table linking between a particular interrupt request line with a particular ISR etc. So all these are So this is the head of file. So this is Xilinx and GAC is part of something called SCU, Snoop Control Unit.

So that's why it is called like this, the head of a file. So first thing let's include this header file. So first thing, let's include this header file. So hash include XSCUGAC.h. So like any other driver, you'll be able to see two functions here. We have the lookup config function here, which will initialize the configuration, then you have to use that function in this function, CFG initialize. So these two things together will initialize our intro controller. Okay, so let's take this function and use it in our code.

Okay, so remember it is returning a pointer of this type. So of course this is a structure which is declared in the header file like the DMA controller. OK, so let me first do these things. So I need to declare a pointer of this type. Let me call it intcconfig and we'll say like intcconfig equal to configlookup and device ID will come and INTEC instance. So here we need to pass the pointer, here we need to pass this pointer, no my mistake so here we need to pass this one and here the TensorFlow instance correct, here effective address, so here If you have an address, you can get something like this.

So instead of base address, here they are calling it CPU base address. So you need to choose that. So now you can check the status. If status not equal to XSCT success, you can check this function what is the return value. It returns XSCT. So if it is not equipped, to access this access, I can print interrupt controller initialization failed And when you do a system design maybe if the interrupt controller fails, you can go back to the porting mode and do it. But here I am just returning. I'm going to work only if the controller is working fine.

Okay, so that part is done. Now we need to set a few more things. So first thing is setting up the priority for our intro. Now, if you go to X parameter and if you search for our merge IP now, you'll see the base address and all. In addition to that, you will see one more thing, Merge, Interrupt, Interrupt 61U. OK? So this is the IRQ number for the interrupt coming from the merge IP and we'll be repeatedly using it at many places. So first thing I'm going to set few parameters for this interrupt. I will explain it after I write it.

XSUGIC set priority trigger type, from the name you can understand what this function will be doing. So this is the function, so this function it takes the gig as a argument, it also takes The IRQ number has another argument. Then it takes two more things. One is the priority for this interrupt, and one is the trigger type for the interrupt. So details you can read here. This trigger, it will say basically whether it is a level sensitive or edge sensitive trigger interrupt, you can set it. And the priority basically says what is the priority of the interrupt.

So here you can see the priority, you can set between 0 to 248. 0 has the highest priority and 248 has the lowest priority. So as I mentioned before, the IRQ itself has some priority. Now from software, you can modify those priority actually. And the priority with the lowest value has the highest property and the priority number with the highest number has the actual lowest priority. So this is important when you have multiple interrupts in your system and the system needs to decide which interrupt should be serviced first if two interrupts or two or more interrupts simultaneously happen.

So, in our system it doesn't happen we actually want to configure only the trigger so we are going to configure the trigger as edge sensitive so we are going to use this value binary 1 So I'll be giving value 3 to make it edge sensitive. So priority will give some value between that, not very low value because maybe there are system interrupts, some higher value but the priority, the sensitivity we will set it as rising edge sensitive. So first argument is instance pointer, so that is our ampersand. This one. Second is the IRK number it is 61 but instead of that we copy paste this parameter. Third one is the priority OK, so let's say sun priority A0 and sensitivity pricing edge.

The next step is connecting this particular IRQ number with the particular ISR, the interrupt service routine that you want to execute when this interrupt happens. So let's write the interrupt service routine first then we will connect that interrupt service So, let's start this routine with this particular IRQ number. Now what are we supposed to do when we get an interrupt from our merge IP? So in this particular case, what we can do is we can So, we can just read from the IP and we can just print the merged value.

So in the presentation I said like we don't usually put print statement in the IRQ but this is a sample case so this is a simple IP. So here there is nothing else for us to do. We just want to read from it and we just want to display the merged number maybe in and in the later example we will have more complex examples than we will have better IRQ. The return type of an ISR should be a void type because as I mentioned before these ISRs are not explicitly called from your program, these are system involved so they cannot return any value to your program as such. So we declare as void type and we declare this function IOSR is a static type also because we want to keep the visibility only within the source code.

Okay, so let me call it something like okay myISR or let's call it mergeISR The name really doesn't matter and ISRs they can take one parameter usually which will be Since I don't have any structure representing that, I'm keeping it empty. There is nothing here. Now last time we discussed the general structure of an ISR so usually first step is disable the corresponding interrupt. So that function I will write later. So let's just add a comment here. disable the corresponding interrupt that we will write later. Next one, we'll do, we'll read the status register to check why this interrupt happened. Now as far as merge IP is concerned I really don't have to do it because I know the only case under which

he will create an interrupt is when the merge operation is completed. Okay so I really I really don't want to read it to check what is happening. If you prefer, you can do it. But one thing we will do, we will write 0 to the status register so that interrupt signal gets reasserted because remember the interrupt signal is connected to bit 0 of the status register So if I want to make that signal low, I should write 0 to the status register, so that next time if a merge operation happen, I again get an interrupt because again remember we are doing an edge sensitive interrupt triggering that means only if the status changes from 0 to 1 we will get an interrupt so I need to make this signal low. So we'll make ZILOUT32

and this is the base address plus 4 is our status and I write 0 to it so that the interrupt signal becomes low. Next is, okay sir the interrupts as I mentioned here only we will read from the IP and just print the result. Okay so this is what I'm going to do you cannot directly store to CA here because CA is a local variable here if you want to do something like that you'll have to declare it as a global variable but as i mentioned before if you are writing a proper driver this ABC they will be all part of The structure which represents your IP, so that structure you will be passing here as an argument and you'll be able to directly access it through the structure. So let me remove it and I'm just going

to read from the IP and print the value there okay because 8 represents the mesh 1. Okay so we service IP, INTRO-BACK, and RETURD. OK, so we will enable the intro back. We'll write the function for that later. OK, so this is my ISR. Intro service routing. Intro service routing for the merge. Interrupt. Now you'll see nowhere in my code I will be calling this function X. So, I will ask the geek to invoke this function whenever there is an interrupt on this particular IRQ. So, in order to connect this IRQ with this IRQ you need to use this function it is called XSCUGIC, underscore, correct. Okay so this is the F3 and this is a function. So again first argument is a pointer to the geek next one is the IRQ, next one is actually

a pointer to your ISR okay? So here you will pass the address of the ISR remember the name of the function is nothing but a pointer to the function so you will just write the name of function here and the last argument is again a pointer to the structure which is representing your hardware okay in our case we don't have any if you wrote it in a proper driveway we'll pass that pointer here and our ISR when you call the ISR this point will be passed to IOSR, automatically by the gig. So instance pointer, ampersand, instance, interrupt ID, IRK number, this one, interrupt handler, it should be of type this one so let's just do typecasting and give this name,

Even if you don't, I've casted it's fine. I don't have any structure representing my hardware Okay, so maybe let's just put suit on that. This function also returns a status and you can check the status whether he successfully connected it or not. And I guess that's also XSCT success. Yeah, so we can do the similar thing. Intrap, let's say connection failed. of CAP, so that much is done. Now next we need to enable this particular intro. So this is a function which is used for enabling a particular intro it is XSU SCU GIC underscore INNAP and you need to pass the instance finder to the gig as well as the IRK network. So this one and IRK network, okay? So this is the function to

Enable it, same way you can assume the Ruby function to disable it. So let's take this function and use it here also. First we are supposed to disable it so we are going to use disable here and we are going to use enable here. So disable is also there, same two arguments. Fine. Okay, so this is how we linked our IRQ with a particular ISR with the GIG. Next step is you need to link the GIC with the intraplogic inside the processor. Okay, so these are something extra. So previously we just do our driver for the particular IP.

Here in addition to linking your ISR with GIC, now you need to Zilinx, Zilinx and It takes the following parameters, ZIL, EXCEPTION, ID, INT, ZIL EXCEPTION HANDLER, XSU, VIC, ILA, So, so this is a standard thing. This is where you are linking the structure representing your GIC with the processor or with the OS and finally you need to do Zilix exception in it. So if you have multiple interrupts in your system, this setting priority connecting interrupt handler and IRQ and enabling that particular interrupt, you have to do it for each interrupt. And finally you need to link your GAC with the operating system okay so this part remains constant always So that's it, so after this here all remain same. This part we can comment out.

So this is where we are doing the polling operation. So that part you can comment out because we have our ISO now. Now if you just run this code what will happen is your code will come and it will just exit from here. Okay so as I I mentioned before the processor should be doing some other processing so that the interrupt handling will be happening in some kind of concurrent way. Okay, so we need to give some other job to the processor so that he doesn't exit from the main function. Once the processor exits from the main functions even if an interrupt comes nothing happens.

So let's give the processor some other job. Let me make the processor to print something. OK, so I'm asking him to print off IAMworkingcap. So let's see what is actually happening. So processor sends the numbers for merging. He enabled the start signal inside our IP. Then he keeps on printing this thing. And while he is printing this one, Our merge IP will complete the merge operation and he will rise the interrupt. Okay, since that particular interrupt is linked with this particular ISR, our processor, he'll automatically invoke this function and he will print the merge number.

And once he finishes this ISR, he automatically goes back here and continues this printing. This is the expected output. Now let's see what really happens. So when I'm saying my code, I am getting few errors. One thing he's saying like, intc instance is now declared that is true because we declared it inside main that means it remains a local variable and I am trying to access it in the ISR also so usually this instance pointer to the geek will declare it as a global from Vivado, and Sutter Taratan. And I already have run configuration from our previous project.

We can just run it. Before printing, I'm working. But at the beginning you can see the processor was actually printing this. He printed I. and by that time our merge operation is SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-S So, here he printed this one then he automatically returned back to the main and printed the remaining and working. Then he is stuck here because I have an infinite while loop. Okay so I guess you have a broad idea of how to write ISRs and use interrupt in your system. So we may We have a better example in the future tutorial with more complex ISRs. Thank you.
