Hello all, in the next set of tutorials we will be finding out how to do image processing on FPGAs and on Zynq chip in particular. So I'm not going into details of image processing for that you may refer to any standard textbook maybe digital image processing by Gonzales which is a good reference book and this is going to be quite a long tutorial so I am breaking it into many different parts so this is the introduction to the image processing basically the theory part. Now as you know images they are nothing but two dimensional arrays okay they are like a matrix of two dimension if they are grayscale if they are color images usually we will say

They are three-dimension. So in this two dimension, each box here, it represents a pixel. If it is a grayscale, we usually have one byte that are representing the intensity of that pixel. If it's a color image, each box will have three values representing the RGB values of that pixel So, broadly we are classifying image processing into two. One is called the point processing, other one is called the neighborhood processing. In point processing you have an input image and you do some operation on that image and you get the output image. Now, the particular The pixel value in the output image depends on the particular pixel value on the input image.

So you are basically doing some transformation operation on a particular input pixel and you get the corresponding output pixel. So just remember, the value of the output pixel depends only upon the value of that input pixel at that corresponding position. and whatever transformation operation you are doing. For example, we have the invasion operation so we have already done this in detail how this is done. So when you're doing the invasion operation, the pixel value on the output image will be 255 minus the pixel value in the input image.

So there are a lot of other point processing also. For example, you have something called Gray Level Mapping. Here what you do is you take an input pixel value and you add a bias to that pixel value. Now depending upon whether the bias is a positive number or negative number you will get a picture with increased brightness or you may get a picture So this is the general architecture we will follow when we design a system for pixel processing. And we have already seen this architecture, we actually designed this IP for doing image processing.

Inversion operation basically and we interface with DMA controller. So in this architecture initially the image will be stored in the external DMA memory. So in this architecture, initially the image will be stored in the external DDR memory. How you get the image to that external DDR depends upon what kind of interface you have. You may use Ethernet USB, PCX-Press high speed interfaces or if you have very low speed interface like UART you can use that also which is we basically used in our previous tutorial. Now from that DDA, the image is streamed. The pixels are streamed to the image processing IP with the help of the DMA controller. So basically we will have a driver here running

on the processor who will configure the DMA Controller here and it will basically send the image data from external DDA to the DMA Controllers. And from there it is streamed to your IP. Now, your IP will be processing the pixels depending upon what is the data width. For example in our tutorial, the data width was 32. That means you can process four pixels in parallel and you'll process it by data width. You can make it 8, 16, 30 to 64, whatever width you choose which may improve the performance depends and you process it using your IP.

After you process it, you stream it back to the DMA controller and the DMA controller, it will send that process picture back to the DDR using the AXI4 interface. And finally, the Tender processed images in the DDR, You can send it to the external world through your internet So, we have to do this. So, in pictorially assume this is your picture. This is the mask here I'm taking a 3x3 so there will be some values here in practical case. So you place the mask on the picture and multiply each card of funding values add them and you are actually getting the output pixel value for this pixel. After that you move the mask by one pixel repeat the operation and you get the value for this

and you keep on moving the mask. Now when you are doing this, you will notice if you want to calculate the values of these pixels on the edges of the image, you do not have 8 neighbors. For example, the corner ones they have only 3 neighbors here and the other ones on the edges they have only 5 neighbors. Now how to solve this issue again you can read in the book there are different ways of there You may assume a dummy row on the top, on the left right and bottom edges also. And these dummy rows and column they may have value 0 or you may replicate the same values of the edges here also and you can do the calculation here that is one way of doing it.

The other way is your output picture, it will not have values corresponding to the pixels on the edges. So in this case, the resolution of the output picture will be slightly less than the resolution of input picture. For example if you have 512x512 input image, the output will be 510x510 because we are neglecting this row, this row and these two corners. So, row wise there will be a reduction of 2 pixel, column wise there will be a reduction to 2 pixel. So you'll have 5 times by 5 times. Okay? So that's how we usually solve the issue of the pixels on the edge.

Now once you finish this convolution for this particular row, you will move the mask to the next row. Okay? Again, you are not shifting by 3 pixels, although it is a 3 by 3, You are shifting only by one pixel, so keep that in mind and you repeat it until you finish convolution of the entire picture. Now when we design a... Viewers streaming, we cannot use because I need only these three pixels. These three are the remaining I don't want then I want these three then I want these three so and so forth. So, pure streaming based implementation is not possible. So you will have to buffer the image inside your IP before you start processing. Now it won't be practical to buffer the entire image inside your

IP because depending upon the image size how much memory you need to buffer FIFO, Vitis, 512x512 grayscale image, around 262kWh If you remember inside FPGA we have something called block RAMs The small memory blocks which are 36kW in 7 series FPGA And we have looped cup tables and flip-flops So you can make buffers or small memories using them But the number of B-RAMs is quite limited If you check the particular FPGA we are using, there will be a few hundred VRAMs usually. And if you use lookup tables and flip-flops to make this memory which we call as the distributor TRAM, it is going to use a lot of CLBs to do it so you won't have much CLBs left for implementing the remaining logic.

So, practically we will never buffer an entire picture inside the FPGA unless the picture is really small. Okay? Otherwise we won't buffer the entire picture. What we'll do is we'll buffer only a part of the image inside our IP which is necessary for doing the processing. So for example, if you are using this 3x3 kernel for processing, If I buffer three lines of my image inside the FPGA, that is enough for me to start processing. So I buffer these three lines then I use the kernel to do convolution and I can keep on moving the kernel until I finish these three lines.

After that, I will need this fourth line which I can send from the external DDR to my IP. So what we usually have is something called line buffers. So line buffers are again small memories they're like RAMs which are used for storing one line of the image inside the FPGA. Now as I mentioned before for this 512x512 3x3 kernel, I need to buffer only three lines So basically I need only 3-line buffer, and for 3-line buffers 1-line buffer will be 512, so I need only 1536 bytes, okay? About one and a half kilobytes. Now what is the size of a line buffer depends upon what is the width of the image, basically the resolution, basically the width actually.

So as I mentioned, from DDR we will send three lines of data to my IP. I'll process those three line then I will send the next line then I will process so on and so forth. Now remember for convolution we might have to reuse the same line buffer multiple times. What does it mean? So in this case when I'm doing convolution I'm using these three lines. Next time I'm going to use These three lines. So this line I am using twice here for convolution as well as here for convulsion and this third line if you see, I need to use here first round of convolution then I need to use it again then after this I will move my kernel down then again so same line I need to

So, for better performance it won't make sense to send the same line information again and again from external DDA to our IP. So using some intelligent multiplexing scheme you can send one line only once and somehow reuse it. So this is the architecture we'll be using so this is the image which is in the DDA initially and these are our line buffers so we have three of them and these are three multiplexers. So you will see each multiplexer it is getting SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA. and the second line buffer. Now I will adjust my multiplexer in such a way that now this second line buffer will be chosen as line 1, the third one as line 2 and the first one as line 3

and I can do the convolution. Now sometimes it really doesn't matter what is the first, second, third lines and in some cases it really matters the order. So that's why we keep the multiplexer in such a way that it always properly chooses the correct lines for the convolution operation. Now, system architecture, what we will first do is for improving the overall system performance, we'll add a fourth line before why we are doing it. For example, here I am sending first three lines of Data, OK? Now I cannot send any more data because I don't have any more free line buffer.

So I'll send first three lines then I will wait for the convolution to be over. Then I will send the fourth line here and while I am sending the fourth line the convolution operation can't happen because there is no data for doing convolution so this is more like software operation you are sending data and then you are doing convolution more like sequential but hardware of course we need to parallelize things to make it faster so what we can do is we can add a fourth line buffer I haven't shown the picture here and what we'll do is first we will send these three line buffer data and we'll start the convolution and while the convolution is in progress we will So, let's go to the next level.

So, I will send the fourth line to the fourth line buffer. And once this convolution is over, we will use this, this and the fourth line buffer for next convolution. And parallelly, I will sent the fifth line of data to this first line buffer. So here, data transmission and data processing, they happen in parallel, which will improve our system performance. Then finally when we connect everything together, it more or less looks exactly same as our previous architecture. But in this particular case, we are going to use Intrep-based processing.

So we'll have an Intrep line coming from our IP to the PS and we will also have the corresponding Intrep service routine. So what will happen is as usual, we'll store the picture initially in the DDR then we will You configure the DMA controller to stream the first four lines to the IP, to the four line buffers and he'll be doing convolution operation here And once he finish one row of convolution He will send an interrupt to the processor And as soon as we get the interrupt, our interrupt service routine It will send the next line of data to the IP and this operation keeps on happening until the entire image is processed.

So once one line of convolution is over, your IP will be streaming it to the DDA through the DMA controller. Okay? So which is same as before after convolution we can stream the data that will come to the DMA controller which will send it back to the DDR through the stream interface here and through the XE4 interface here. So that architecture remains same. Okay, so in the next tutorial we will actually start coding and we will see how to implement this IP core.
