Hello all, in this tutorial we are going to start our Virlog coding for developing the image processing IP through neighborhood operation. So I will be doing it part by part so we are going start with design for line buffer. So remember one line buffer we are going use to store one line of the image. Ok? So at the beginning again I am assuming we are going process a grayscale image. So each pixel is only 1 byte and also I'm assuming we are going to process a 512x512 image. Later maybe we can parameterize things so you can use the same design by just changing some parameters.

Okay, so from our discussion you might have noticed our line buffer it's nothing but a small memory actually some kind of RAM where data will be initially filled from the original image and data will be read out and processed later. So this is like a RAM. Now you cannot model it as a FIFO because remember FIFO, you can store some data, you can read from the FIFO later but the only problem is you can read it only once. Once you read the data that is lost from the FIFO or basically you cannot again access it from the FIPO. But when you are doing convolution you may have to So you have to use the same data again and again. For example, if this information is stored in the first line buffer,

OK, you have to read it only once. But if this one is stored in line buffer, you will need this information when you do the first round of convolution as well as when you do second round of convolutions. So same data you will have to reuse. You cannot model it as a FIFO for better design. If you are rewriting same data again and again maybe you can model it as a FIFO, but for a better design you will have to model it as some kind of RAM. Now Xilinx they provide Xilinx IP cores, RAMs, we have simple RAM, so called dual port RAM, true dual port RAM different kinds of IP's are available, but for our particular requirement it will be better to write our own IP because the kind of flexibility that we need we will not get from the Xilinx

IP core, what I mean by that will be clear when we start the coding. So I'll be starting a new Vivado project and we will be building different components initially and finally we'll be connecting them together to build our Android IP core. So let me call it my project name as image processing, put as a sub-directory and we Create the project, and I'm calling it as LineBuffer.video So these assumptions I am going to write the port declaration. So of course we need a clock, let's add a reset signal also, I'm assuming active high reset. So this is the data coming to the line buffer okay so this will be one pixel of data and we need some indication like This is a valid data or not, so I have data valid also.

So this looks like AXI-Stream interface except that I'm not putting a ready signal since this is a memory there is no case like the memory is not ready to accept data, memory will be always ready to accept it. Maybe you'll be all writing some previous data but still a memory cannot back pressure so there's no need of ready signal, okay? So that's about the input part. Now the output, when you read from the line buffer what should happen? So look here. So this is how the convolution is going to happen. So this line is in some line buffer and you need So, you can choose to read 3 pixels from this line buffer for doing the convolution when you are using a 3x3 kernel.

If you are using 5x5 kernel, you will have to read 5 pixels from the line buffer. Now, you can chose to read 1 pixel at a time from the line buffer then somehow concatenate 3 pixels and get this entire thing. For better performance, you may read this entire 3 pixels in one shot from the Linebuffer. So when you are doing modeling the memory yourself, the Linebuffer, you can do this style. But if you're using Xilinx IP core, you may not have this flexibility. That's what I mentioned before. So if you are reading 3 pixels in one shot, that means you have to read 3 times 8 which is 24 bits in one shot.

So if you choose science IP core it won't be supporting a size of 24 instead it will be supporting sizes which are power of 2. So maybe you can read like 8, 16, 32 but you won't be able to read 24. That is one lack of flexibility which you can add if you're doing your code. So I'm writing output, again my assumption 3x3 kernel so 24 bit 23 down to 0 or data. Okay? So you have to write like this, you cannot write something like output 7 down to 0 or data sum 2 down to 0 something like that to indicate each pixel is 8-bit and you need and you should write it like this.

And that is our data, and this is a memory as I mentioned before, so there should be some signal which indicates data should be read from the line buffer. So that I am modeling as input I read data. Again, this is similar to AXI-Stream interface. This is like data signal, and this like the ready signal from the slave. from the slave. Here again there is no explicit valid signal because from a memory you will always get some valid data so that is not there. Okay, so that part is done. Now we can model the line buffer itself. So line buffer is nothing but a memory. Okay? So memory in Virlog this is how we model two-dimensional. Reg followed by width of the memory. So each pixel is 8

and we need 512 such, 511 down to 0. So this is actually the line profile. This is the memory where the data will be stored. Okay now let's model how data will be returned. So we are working synchronously. OK, so what we need is whenever there is a new valid data coming, whenever there is a new pixel coming to the IP that should be stored somewhere in this memory. So again this looks like software implementation. So you need some variable or here we need some register which will basically tell me in which memory location this new data should be stored.

OK, so let's call that register right point because it's similar to a pointer in software. What should be the size of the right pointer? The size of the Right pointer will be logged to the base to the depth of your memory because the pointer basically indicates which position in the memory. So the size of their register should be big enough to store values between 0-5 level, right? Log of 512 which is 9 so we need to write 8 down to 0 white pointer and here we will write line of right pointer is i data. So whenever a new pixel comes under what condition? If i data valid, if there is a valid data SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, ILA, ILA.

Valet, we will increment the right pointer. So that next starter will be stored in the next location. Okay, fair enough. So the right part is done. Now we have to do the read part. So to indicate from which locator we need to read again, we need another pointer similar to right pointer, the size will be exactly same so let's call it read pointer. Now, I'm going to write something like this then I will explain why I am writing like that. So I'll just write OData equal to which is 24 bit okay so my 24 bit data will be the location currently pointed by read pointer assume we are starting from here so this pixel this pixel and this pixel so I will concatenate these three pixels

I will say line of read pointer, line of read plus 1, line of 3 bytes goes out in one shot and now the logic for read pointer, similar to write pointer, copy paste, if there is a reset our read pointer will be 0 and instead of i data valid whenever someone reads okay I read data when someone reads from my line buffer I will increment my read pointer by 1, not by 3. Why? Because when I am doing convolution first I need these three bytes, next time I need these three bits, not these three but this one, this one and this one for that I need to implement the read pointer only by one. So this is one thing again you can implement if you are writing the line buffer by yourself, if you are using Xilinx IP core you don't

So you can have different write port and read port width in Xilinx IP core also, but the only problem is whenever you increment the read part, so it will always increment by the size of the read port width. So in this case first it will be these three then it will be next three. As I mentioned before, Xilinx they don't actually support 24, they support 32. I wrote it as a combination statement, I didn't write it in an ordinary statement, I wrote it I will write it as a confidential statement because again if I write it as sequential statement So, we have one read latency between this read data signal and when the actual data goes out.

Now that is perfectly fine but life will be easier if I have some kind of prefetching. If you have seen our previous tutorial I hope it might be clear to you. In some cases it will be better if we have a prefetch operation. So when we, I guess in the previous tutorial, we used the first word for through FIFO where the FIFO prefetches the next valid data and keeps it at the output. Similar idea here as soon as you power on your circuit, the data at because this reset will come so this will become zero. So, what our data is at location 0, location 1, location 2. It will be prefetched and available at the output. Okay? So I can read the data and as soon as read data signal comes this

will increment and it will get the next 3 bytes. So based on this style I can have zero latency. Okay? So that's it. This is the entire design of a line buffer and this is actually the and also the design for RAM also. So when you are designing a RAM, this is how exactly it looks like. The only thing is the read port and write port sizes are different in this memory. We call them asymmetric RAM And if you make them equal, yes that's like your normal so-called simple dual port RAM Because you are writing through one interface and you are reading through another interface Good. Now let us quickly simulate our design wants to make sure it is working properly Go to run simulation and choose simulation

Okay, this time also I'm just forcing the signal not writing any test bench apply some reset Keep all input signals In some default state, you can see right pointer, right pointer both are initialized to 0. Like we designed it. Ok so let's remove the reset and let's store some data. Ok so to store data I'll make this one 1, force constant 1, we make data valid 1, force constant 1. OK, so let's store 6 bytes, 6 pixels, so 4 spots turned to. So you can see our right pointer is incrementing here. So this got stored in 0, this will get stored in 1. You can actually expand this line, the two-dimensional array which is the memory. You can see data getting As soon as one got stored in location 0, it is coming to our output because our repointer

value is 0. So, let's see how it works. Okay, so assume we are storing only 6 pixels, so we'll make data valid 0. Okay, so we have already stored and if you look at our data, you can already see 0 to 1 to 3 at the output even before we made the read data signal high. So this is the effect of prefetching. I already have the data here. Now when I make read data high, let's see what happens. You can see here it became 2-3-4, okay? So two came to the left and 3-4 here 3-4-5 so on and so forth. Because of our prefetching style when I write my remaining logic, I can make read data signal Hi, on the next clock itself I can read because there is already a valid data here.

I will get this data in the subsequent clock, I will get these data so and so forth but if you write sequentially you will have one clock latency so if you make read data high here valid data will come out only after this clock edge so you can read it only in and the subsequent clock catch. That's why we say there is one clock read latency, but based on our style, the combination style, there is no read latency. There will be some impact on timing because of this so we have to look for that part on ZedBoard we usually aim 100 MHz clock frequency. For 100 MHz, okay, this will work perfectly fine.

OK, so that's it. So remaining we will see in our next tutorial. Thank you.
