Hello all, so we will continue with the design of our image processing IP. So in the previous tutorial I have shown how to design our line buffer. So in this tutorial we are going to design the module which will be doing the multiplication and summation operation. Okay, so basically this module will get the pixels and it will also get the kernel and it will basically multiply the pixels with the corresponding kernel values and add them together. Now what kind of kernel we are going to use here? There are different kinds of kernels depending upon what you want to do so in Wikipedia there is a good illustration of different kind of kernels.

We have the identity kernel which does nothing, so the output image will exactly look like All his 8 neighbors and dividing the entire result by 9 to get the output pixel value. So effectively you are finding the average of one pixel and all his neighbors as the output pixel value. So this will look like a blurred image, okay? So this is also called an averaging filter also because we are taking the average of the PIXEL and its neighbors. Or sometimes we call it as a smoothening current also, because you are getting a smooth image as the output. Okay? So this is the kernel we are going to use.

Now I will just show the effect through MATLAB also so that you can see what is the expected result. So when we test the image, we'll be using again LANA. So let's see what is X-PECTED output, so let's try it in MATLAB and see how it should look like. So I am reading the image now let me define my kernel here. So we are going to use this kernel, okay 111 111 111. So 111 111 111, it's a 3x3 matrix. Now we will do a 2D convolution between this kernel and the image. And divide each pixel by 9. OK, so we'll say output equal to 2D convolutions between the kernel and image.

And you divide every value by 9. OK, so this is the output. So if you notice my input size is 512x512 but O size is 514x14. This is because of the way how MATLAB take care of the edge pixels. So he's actually adding additional pixels to the edges. So instead of reducing the image size like I discussed last tutorial in MATLAB it's actually increasing it by 2 pixels. OK, vital. Vifital became 514 by 514. Now the data type is double because we are dividing by an iron. OK? So in order to display it I need to convert it into 8-bit. So we'll say like O equal to again typecast of 8 and let's see how it looks like. So OK, I'm show I. This is our original figure and okay so this is the figure after this blur operation. So if you compare

these two, you will see like there is a smoothening effect, the edges are no longer sharp especially on the cap you can see all these ridges they are smoothened out okay and here also. So same operation We are going to try using the SPJ here. If you notice closely, you will see the pixels on the edges. They are all black because it's a 514 by 514. So there are two additional rows, one at the top and bottom and two corners on the left and the right. Okay. So this is what we are trying to do using FPGA also. So, so this is the expected output.

Okay, so, so we assume the module which is instantiating the line buffers and these multiplexers they will, we will design them later. My current assumption is these output from the multiplexers they are already available each one giving 24 bits. So based on that assumption we can start coding. Okay, so let's call this module as it's actually doing only multiply and accumulation operation only. It's not exactly doing the convolution but still let's call it CUN, to indicate it's doing convolution. Okay so we need input, we have clock and we have data coming from the line buffer okay so as I mentioned before we had 24 pixel and three-line buffer like previous tutorial as I mentioned you cannot

declare two dimension you have to flatten it and declare it as a single one and The convoluted output are basically multiplied and accumulated output, so which will go as the output pixel value. So he will basically multiply all of them and add them together. So the output result that should be 8 bit after you do it, which will be going as the output pixel value. So 7 down to 0. Let's call it as Oconvaultata. and again we need some signal to say this is a valid data, okay, Oconvault.Vac, fine that's the port declaration.

Now we need to declare the kernel, okay so kernel either you can declare it as a two-dimensional array because you are now inside the module or you can declare So let's declare it as a one-dimensional array by flattening it. So let's declare it has two dimensional array, what should be the width, what should be the depth? So we need nine values each for each location here so we have nine and each one of them what should be their width depends upon what value the kernel is going to store so in this case it is going to show all one so one bit is Now let's initialize the value in the kernel. Since I'm going to use a constant kernel, I can use the init block to initialize the values of the kernel.

Okay so let's say kernel 0 equal to 0 you can either like this or let's use a for loop. 4i equal to 0, i less than we have built a cap So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-ILA, I 0, I less than 9, I equal to I plus 1. What we want to do? We want to multiply the kernel i-th value with the corresponding value coming from here. Okay so 0 to 7 here should be multiplied with kernel of 0, 8 to 15 should be multiplied with kernel of 1 and so forth. So either you can unroll it and write it. If you are writing it in the shortcut format, again remember the syntax.

So you need to write it something like this. I times what is the width plus colon 8. Okay so initially i will be 0. So this will be like 0 starting index 0 width is 8. So it represents 0 to 7 so on and so forth. So this I should be stored somewhere, so let's declare some place, let's call it one dot or something that's where I'm going to store the result of this multiplication. So again that is 9 depth, width depends upon okay the width of the operands, so ideally This is 8-bit and this is also 8-bit for each multiplication.

So at least theoretically, this can be 16-bit wide. But currently practically kernel is 1 so 8 bits are enough. But again let's put it like 16 bit because later maybe we will change the kernel values. okay so MULT data of I is something like this okay now if you notice i am doing one level of pipelining between my input data and the multiplication okay so okay so we'll come back So we have to go back to that later, I guess for clarification. Okay so we multiplied it. Next is we need to add it. Now addition, let me try to write first and explain.

ICLOCK, again if you are using for loop it may look something like that. For i equal to 0, i less than 9, i equal to i plus 1, begin end. and we need to add them together, so let's say like some data or something, this is where I'm going to store it. How do you add it? Some data plus one data of i and maybe some data we need to initialize to 0. So this is how we exactly write it in software also. So here also it looks fine, but if you do simulation you will find like this won't be working. Okay because how this non-blocking operation works is slightly different.

Again it depends upon your previous experience in VIDLOG whether you really understand it or not. So when you are using this non-blocking statement that means the value on the right hand side should be propagated to the left hand during the clock edge. Okay, so based on that if you write like this, when you come So, we are going to this loop statement. The sum data won't be initialized to zero because it is going to get this data only on the next positive edge of the clock. Okay? So when you do this, some data is supposed to have still its previous value and you're asking to do this entire addition on a single clock edge.

So you will implement it in parallel, but when you do simulation, most probably some data will be X at the beginning, his previous value. And next clock when you do it, some data will be having again X because you are adding X with something unknown with something. So you will find like in simulation it really doesn't work but practically it might work. Okay so that is one place where modeling and real stuff are different. Okay so to avoid it what you can do is if you write like this, this will work okay? This is blocking assignment that means some should be initialized to zero before coming and the following for simulation purpose.

During implementation, the implementation hardware might be exactly same as before. But the problem with this one is if you write this statement, this means some data should be changed immediately. Okay? So previously, if you remember, I guess I mentioned when you do simulation even if you see like data is changing on the clock edge, actually it is changing slightly after the clock edge. We will say like some delta time after the clock, t plus delta t but if you write like this that is not the case. Some data is changing with the clock edge itself so if you look at the value on the clock it will have this new value. So again there will be some simulation mismatch, There will be some mismatch between simulation and the real implementation.

So to avoid all these things, what we can do is again you may feel like okay so if I write like this they should be solving the problem because some data should be immediately initialized but this some data should come only after clockwise. Again the problem is for Vivado You cannot mix blocking and non-blocking assignment statement inside the same always block. Okay, so that's a restriction in Vivado. So if you do like that in simulation everything works as expected maybe implementation should be also working perfectly but Vivado he won't let you synthesize it. He will be able to simulate it properly but he won't

So to avoid all these things, what we will do is, so practically what does it mean? So we need parallel adders, okay? We need eight adders to add these nine variables together and on the clockwise it should go out. Okay? So that adder circuit, it is actually a combination circuit and I can model the combination circuit like this. So, this represent a pure combination circuit. Okay, makes sense and on the next clock I will assign this sum data to something. Okay so let's call it sum, this is some intermediate sum operation, sum data int and here I will say like okay sum data and then the other one is Thumb.8. So this should solve the problem. This is also modeling exactly

what we wrote before but when you write this style there will be matching between simulation as well as the real implementation. You need to declare them, they are inside always so although it is a combination circuit since it's inside always should be declared as EdgeType, Now what should be the width? Again ideally this is small data you can take the worst case scenario and find out what should be the width. Here our multi-data is 16 bit so let me declare this also as 16 bit okay so some data in it is this one and SumData, let's make that also 60-minute. Okay, ideally what we should do is we should find out what will be the maximum value of MUL data so in the worst case what will be The maximum value coming to some depth

So, we have a big combination circuit which is doing the multiplication and addition and this division everything together in the single clock cycle. You can do it but that will make a big combination of circuits again which can affect your timing performance. That's why we are adding pipelines in between so this is one level of pipelining you can see multiplication one level of pipelineing then we are doing this addition. addition this one that is happening in parallel, that is another level of pipelining and finally next level of pipeling which will be division by 9. Now good thing is previously signing tools like ISE it never supported direct division operation if the denominator is not a power of 2 but currently Vivado it is supporting

division by N How do you find this one? You just find out how many pipelines are there between your input and output, and you add equal number of pipeline to this signal also. So where is our first pipelining? First pipelining is coming here when you're multiplying. So let's call it MULT data valid is IPIXEL data valid. Okay, so next one is this one, so here let's call SUM data valid is MULT data valid and here we have the division and here we can say so this is also rich. All data valid is some data valid. Okay, so we are just pipelining the data valid same number as the pipelines for the actual data path.

Okay, so that's it. So we need to declare all of them. Well, data valid, kernel data valid and some data valid, okay? So that completes the design of this module. If you wish, you can go ahead and simulate and see, but I'm pretty confident this will work because there is not much logic. Okay, one thing I would like to add here is when you are dividing by 9, you may not get an integer, right? I don't think in most cases you'll be getting an integer. So in Vivado if you do like this, he will build a circuit which will take only the integer part and it will assign to Oconroll data.

Okay? Now again... So, this is a 16-bit data and this is an 8-bit data. So what happens is he will divide and he will take only the integer part and the lower eight bits of that integer will be going as the output. So when I say like he will take it under, what I mean is the circuit implemented by Vivado is something like that. So it takes this data and it divides by an iron, and the output will have only the integer part, and the lower 8 bits of that integer part will be going out as the kernel data. Okay? So that's it for next part in next video.
