Hello all, in this tutorial we are going to design the core logic of our IP core. So basically we have already designed our line buffers, we have already design the logic which is sitting after these multiplexers basically for doing the multiply and accumulate operation. So this time we are going design the module which is going to instantiate all these line buffers, all these multiplexer and which controls storing data into line buffers as well as which control sending data from this module to the MAC module. Okay, so I'm starting a new file and let's call it something like image control or something because we are basically writing the control logic. Okay, So first again as usual we have to write our input output

So we have a clock, we have a reset. Now look at the figure. So we are going to instantiate our line buffers inside this module. And from external world, we will have a single stream of pixels coming. And we need to store those pixels into this line buffer. And finally, we have to send a stream of pixels from this module to the module for multiply accumulate. So based on that, this is the input pixel stream. So I need to add it also again like our AXIStream interface. This is an input interface. Similarly we need an output interface 7 down to 0. Okay so output interface if you notice it is going to the module of multiply accumulate

and if you look out our previous design the assumption is he's going to get all nine pixels in parallel so 72 bits it should be so it is 71 down to 0 for pixel data we have 4 pixels okay so that's it about the interface now let's go ahead and instantiate our line buffers So as I mentioned before, for performance improvement we will be using four line buffers. Okay so not three. So at one time we'll be doing the convolution on three of them and parallelly we'll be filling the data in the fourth one. So let's instantiate four-line buffers. So let's call them like Lb0, 9-buffer 0, 9-buffer 1, 2 and 3. So clock we can directly connect, reset also we can directly connect the data will be this pixel data that actually we can directly

connect and we can manipulate this data valid to control in which light buffer Data will get stored, okay? So directly commit this one. Okay so this much we can do for all four line buffers. Okay so first thing let's write the logic which will control which line buffer will get the data coming from the external world. Okay so this is the logic what I'm going to use. So when we start first 512 will go here next 512 here X5-12 here, X5- 12 here and X5-11 should go back to the first line buffer itself. Okay so that's how we are going to do it. So we will have a counter which will count and how many pixels are received and whenever the So, if we do that counter, crosses 512, we need to fill data in the next line buffer.

Okay? So, that's the logic we are going to use. Pretty straightforward. So, we will have a counter called it like always at 5 o'clock. So let's call it maybe some pixel counter or something. I reset. Let's call it pixel counter. It is initially 0 and it will increment whenever a valid pixel comes. We need to declare it. I am going to declare it 9-bit because my aim is to find whether 512 bits of data has arrived. The logic is, whenever the pixel counter overflows, when it changes from 511 to 512, I need to switch to which line buffer the data should go.

Okay, so to make our logic simple we will make it exactly 9-bit so that it can come from 0 to 5, 11. Okay, so pixel router is this one now let's write the logic okay. So essentially you are writing a d-multiplexer so you have data stream coming from here You need to choose where it should go. So I'm going to choose a register which will basically tell me to which line buffer the incoming data should go. So initially, let me call it current write buffer or current write line buffer. So when we apply reset, we are always starting with the first line buffer.

VITA, otherwise what happens is if our pixel counter is 511 that means we already received 511 and we get one more pixel data. So what happens is on this clock the pixel counter will all flow to 0 because we declared it only 9 bits so we can count only from 0 to 511. So it will automatically go back to 0. So if I write like this, this basically indicates you already received file event and this is the 512th pixel coming, okay? Which should be the last pixel going to the current write buffer and from the next pixel onwards it should be stored in the next line buffer. So based on this we can say current is we are just incrementing it. Now this logic will perfectly work if you declare it 2 bits wide

because if it is two bits, it goes from zero all the way to three and we have line buffers 0 to 3 total 4 okay so based on this initially it will be 0 once we get 512 it will become 1 then next 5, 12, 2, 3, then it will all flow back to 0. So this logic will work. So based on this one now I can write the right the valid signal for these line buffers okay so I will have four valid signals so let me write them four of them three down to zero So let's call it line buffer data valid. You can write it in a different way.

Basically, whichever is the current line buffer, its data valid should be same as this data valid. And all other line buffer data value should remain zero so that if any new data comes, it goes to the current right buffer. So one simple way to write it is like that, writing it as combo So, I'm saying line buffer data valid. All of them zero except “ okay? So this is a shortcut. You can write if and if case statement also no issue but this makes it shorter. So I'm basically saying like all of them is zero except the current line buffer data value.

Okay? So this will be same as this and everything else remains zero. So based on this now we can connect them here 0 and 3. So that part is done. So now data will be properly stored in the appropriate line buffer. After every 512 pixels, we are switching to the next line buffer. So that's the right part. Similarly, we can easily write the read part also. So we'll again have something to indicate from which line buffers we are currently reading. And each time we finish reading one full row, we will switch the line buffers.

So basically this multiplexer part, okay? So that's what we're going to do it. So again like current write line buffer we can make something called down to zero current read line buffer ok. Now remember our assumption is we are going to get data from three line buffers in parallel ok so initially we will get data from these three line buffer next time we will get the Data from this one, this one and the fourth one. Next time, this one, this one and first one. So these are the four different cases. So let's go ahead and write that logic first because that is the simplest one.

So we'll say like always again I am writing it as a combination logic. Okay so let's write it like a case-case statement. So case SLIME buffer, EndCase, The logic for controlling this we will write. Okay next first let's write it. So again this can have values 0, 1, 2 and 3. So if you are at 0 we'll read from these three. Next one this and this so on and so forth. So if it is 0, our output pixel, this one. This will be composed of data coming from first three line buffers. So okay so let's declare the datas here. This is line buffer zero data.

This is line buff 1 data. This is 2, 3. Remember they are all 24 bits. So all together we concatenate 3 and we will get 72 which will be ultimately going here for conversion. Okay so if you are 0, you will concatenate line buffer 0 and line buffer 1 1, and so 4 different cases we can write. This one, we have 1 here, 2 here, 3 here. We'll have 2 here,3 here, and 0 here. 4K is 3, 3 here, 0 here. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA-SPF, XSct, ILA‐SPF, ILA-. back to 0, so we will again get this case. So, hope it is clear.

Ok, so let's go ahead and declare these things quickly. So they are all 24 bits wide. 23 down to 0. Now we will write the logic. Ok, so this should be register. Now we need to write the logic which is going to control this current read line buffer. Okay, so similar to current write line buffer what we need to do is each time we finish reading 512 pixels We need to switch the current read line buffers. So similar logic. OK, so we can write maybe here. So always set for such a clock. OK, initially we will start from zero itself.

OK, so again similar to write, we need some counter which counts like how many pixels has been read. We'll declare it later. So let me write it now itself. If the read counter is 511, that means you already read 5 11 pixels and you are again reading data okay let's call it read line buffer that is the case that means you are reading the 12th, 12th peak so that means you are reading five-twelfth pixel from the buffer you have to switch the current Readline buffer 21. Okay, so we need this counter which basically counts how much data you have read. So let's write it again. All we set for such a clock comes 0.

We are reading. We will increment it by 1. Okay, so we'll declare all these sickness in one moment. Okay, So first easiest thing to do is now to control this signal, the read signal because we already have this current read line buffer information. Okay so similar to our 4-bit line buffer data valid We can actually declare, write 3 down to 0, let's call it line, buff, read data, and we connect them here. So this is for 0. So now we need to control the signals. Okay so again remember at a given point in time you will be always reading from three 3-line buffers in parallel, not 1. In write operation when you get a new pixel you have to store it in only one line buffer but while reading again go back to the figure at a given

point of time you will be reading from three line buffers together and you will be So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPF, XS Based on this one, you have to send the read-enable signal to the line buffers so that it will prefetch the next data to the output So that when you read next time, you will get it Fine? So that's what we are writing here. Always start again, you have write it as a combo logic because we don't have any read latency from this read-line buffer As soon as we finish from reading three sets of line buffer, we need to immediately switch to the next set of three line buffers. So if you write it sequentially there will be one

clock latency and it will mess things up. So you need to switch as soon as you finish reading from 3. So you have to write it as a formulation circuit. OK, so again let's write it as again this case statement. We can write EFLSIF. So same cases. So when the current line buffer is 0, you want to read from 0, 1, 2. So it is already prefetched, so it will go here. So parallelly, you need to send the read enable signal so that he will fetch the next data on the next package. Fine. OK, so 0. We'll make line buffer read data of 0. That will get which one? Read line buffer.

This is an internal signal. We'll declare it. He will get the signal. He will also get this one. He will also gets this one because we are reading from these three line buffer and we won't be reading from this line buffer, line buffer VIT data. Okay should be we'll declare it first let's write so 0 we write like that and we are reading from 1 you want to read from this one this one and this one but not from this one, this one is 3, is 3, okay now we need to declare them it's already declared only thing is this is capital letter R so let's get 012 is P0 and this is three when you are copy pasting PVD card for making mistakes Rateline buffer we will declare it, ok so few more things we have to declare for example rate counter is not declared

So let's declare it like a pixel counter. That's also a little bit. Need to count the file one and the read line buffer. Okay, let's declare that later we will write the logic how this signal is generated. Okay, now we need to generate this signal, okay? Read line buffer. This is the signal which is ultimately controlling from which line buffer you are reading. Okay, so let's come back. How can we do it? So basically when you start, you can start reading from the line buffers only after filling the first three line buffers.

Okay, only after filling first three line buffer, you can stop the convolution and after that you can start reading from them in parallel. And once you finish these three, if the fourth one is filled, you can read from next three. Now, once you finish that, if the first one is again filled, you can read form this one, fourth one, and the first one, so on and so forth. So to start the read operation, we need at least 5, 12 times 3. Only after getting 1536 pixels you should start reading from the line buffer till that you should wait. Now the easiest way to implement this condition is to write a very small state machine so that state machine will be controlling when you

and you will start reading from the line buffer and ultimately this read line buffer signal because you need to wait for this much time and basically, you will read from line buffer only if line buffers have at least this much data in other words, at least three line buffers are full then only you can read from the line buffers If the data in line buffer is less than this much, you can't read from the line buffers because you don't have enough data for doing the convolution. So again now we need some counter to check how much data are there in the line buffer not only one line buffer or overall how much data is stored in the line buffers and if that count is greater than this value

We can start ready. Okay, so for that I need to declare one more signal. So let's call it Total Pixel Counter. Okay, this counter will basically tell me totally how much valid data are there in the line buffer. So in the worst case, how much we need? We need maximum capacities like 512x4, so 2K. Now to store 2K you will need these many bits, 12 bits. So let's declare it 11 down to 0 total pixel counter. Now let's write the logic here itself. So we have different cases one case is when a new data comes from external world we can increment this total pixel There are only two cases where this total pixel contour will change. So first case is you have

data coming from external world and this signal is, look, you have data but you are not reading Vocabulary, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPF, ILA‐SPF, OK, so we need this guy for writing our small state machine. We set... So write a state machine. Let's call the state as read state or something because this is the state machine which basically controls the read operation from the line buffer. So initially we are in the idle state. Let's begin and state and case. So we are at the idle state And as I mentioned before, we can start reading only after we get a sufficient number of data.

So that information will get from this total pixel counter. So if total pixel counter is greater than 512 times 3, that means you have data in at least three line buffers, So this is the current read line buffer, that read signal will go through those three line So this is a single number like 0,1,2. It is actually representing the starting line buffer from where you are reading from that line buffer as well as the next two line buffers because you're always reading from three line buffers together. Okay so this should be also initialized to 0 here and once we find like there is enough data

So, in this data we will just send one enter of data. We will continuously stream data to the output so that our convolution logic gets data consecutively for next vital cycle. We will say read state is something like read buffer or something and in this state read buffer what we are doing is we are just checking whether we are reading 512 pixels or not. Once we start reading from a line buffer we'll read one entire line. Remember based on this signal our read counter is SoC, Vivado, ILA, ILA-S read counter will all flow. So you should write file on, anyway that is the maximum value read counter can take.

So on this clock I am going to read the 5th-12th pixel. That is the case. Okay we will go back to idle state and we will check whether sufficient data is there in the line buffer. If not we will wait in the idle state for sufficient data to come. If the rest of your data will immediate So, let's come back and read from the next three-line buffer. And we need to make the signal low here because we finished reading or fight. Okay so that's it. That's the state machine. It is more one only two states. So it needs to be only one bit wide.

and so we declared the two states also. Okay, so that's it this is the enter logic maybe you have to go through it once more uh to really understand what is happening. So basically what we implemented are we implemented a d-multiplexer here which will choose input stream of pixel and it will decide to which line buffer it should be stored. That is one thing we did. Another thing that we implemented is this multiplexer, although you cannot directly see the instantiation of multiplexer here, this case statement is actually implementing those multiplexers. And the control signal to the multiplexers So, based on which line buffer you are reading or starting from which line buffer

you are reading, you control this multiplexers and take data from three line buffers and send it out. Now that control signal is controlled from a state machine. Okay so that state machine counts first it checks whether there is So the final logic remaining is this signal. How will you say that the pixel data valid signal? OK, so this signal should be asserted whenever there is a valid data here. When will you have a valid data? You'll have a valid here whenever your read line buffer becomes high. Again because there is a zero read latency for the line buffer.

As soon as you make it high, there is already valid data at the output of the line buffer OK, because it is working based on pre-searching. So effectively you will have a valid output whenever the read line buffer becomes high. So if this signal is high that means the data coming here is valid. Okay, so that completes the design of our this core logic. Again I'm not simulating at this point in time because in next tutorial we will combine all these modules and build our entire IP and we will simulate then to check whether all our logic is working or not.

Thank you, see you in the next tutorial.
