Hello all, in this tutorial we will combine the modules that we have developed before and we'll complete the hardware design for our IP. So we have already done two three modules, we already have the module for line buffer and we have the control logic and we also have the convolution module CAS so we'll combine them and we'll make our image processing IP. So this will be our topmost module, we call it image-process.top. Now this module, we'll be interfacing it with the DMA controller and remember that the DMA controller has the AXI stream interface.

So data comes as well as goes through the AXI Stream interface. And we also have an interrupt signal coming from the IP so we'll add that also. curve, so we are going to follow the AXI interface. So let's call it XC clock, input XC reset and AXI they follow active low reset. So that is this one then let's write the slave interface. So this is an interface through which data will be coming from the VMA controller. So let's say i.value we have and we have 8-bit data basically this is the pixel data, i.value, and we need to say o.ready then we have the master interface through which we'll be sending So we have output 4 data valid, output 8 bit data after convolution, and we have input i.ready.

OK so that completes the AXI stream and we also need to add this interrupt signal. So now let's instantiate the module. So now let's instantiate the module. So first let's instantiate this image control module. OK, so this is where our line buffers and all are sitting. So image control clock. We can directly collect to the XC clock. Reset, OK. We did the coding assuming this is active high reset but XC Reset is active low, so we will invert it and we'll connect it. Now pixel data that is this data itself, input data, and pixel data valid will be a data valid.

Now there is no ready signal coming from this module because as I mentioned before, we are writing to your memory, so basically memory will be always ready. So that's why we didn't add the signal there. But we'll have to write some logic for controlling this radio signal, which we will do. Okay so these two, these are the output from the image controller, which will be going to this convolution module. So let's add that. Reception module, okay and clock. There is no reset signal for this model because There is nothing to reset inside that, that module just always works. So I pixel data, so the data here is the output from this module. So let's take this and it is 72 bit. So wire 31 down to 0.

Pixel data we also have, pixel data valid. This one, take that, pixel data value. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA. So that whenever the DMA controller says he is not ready to accept data, you will tell the DMA Controller I am not ready to acceptance data. Okay so that would have worked but here one issue is we have pipelining inside our convolution module. Okay so the data coming from the line buffer it is not immediately going to the output It is going through three levels of pipelining here So because of that what happens is even if you directly connect these two signals, If the DMA controller says like I'm not ready to accept data, You will tell the DMA Controller you are not ready to

accept data but the only problem is you already have data in the internal pipelines. So i guess uh if it is three levels of pipelineing you already have three So, you can see the data in the internal pipeline and that you will lose actually because there is no handshaking within the pipelining. It is blindly taking data from the line buffer and moving across the pipeline. So basically directly connecting these two signals won't work okay? So simplest way to do it, you can solve it in many ways. You can add this control signal to the pipelaning also means the pipeline doesn't always work That is also checking for the ready signal, that is one way.

Another simplest way is to add an output buffer. In most design you will see like we'll have an output buffer, or basically it will be a FIFO. We'll add a FIFO to the output to manage the mismatch between this input and the output. So what happens is the output from the convolution, I will not directly send it to the output. Instead of that, I'll be initially storing it in FIFO, and from the FIFO it will be sent to the output. Okay? So I will put some control signal in the FIFO so that when the FIF0 is almost full, I will say like I am not ready to accept data.

When the FIFor may become almost full, it will become almost full when the FIFO is not able to send data out which is basically this ready signal is low. So in that case, because of the FIFO it will be able to store all these intermediate pipeline data internally. You won't lose that data and later when this ready signal becomes high, the FIFO will be able send it out. Okay so you will see it in mostly signs usually there will be a FIFO at the input also to manage the mismatch between the burst rate between how data is coming and how you are processing data.

But in our case we don't need any input buffer because we already have a line buffer which is kind of a buffer. So I'm just adding a FIFO to the output, okay? So that's an IP core, we'll directly use Xilinx IP core to do it. FIFO generator, okay let's call it output buffer and we are going to use an AXI stream FIFO OK, so not many options are there. OK here I specify the width and here notice the width is specified in number of bytes actually. So we just need one byte, 8-bit. It's in terms of byte, not in terms of bits.

So there is something called T user width that is for sending this additional signal, optional 1. We don't have those signals so you can make it 0. OK, then OK, FIFO, Depth. OK, we don't need a very large FIFO maybe because as I mentioned When I back pressure, in the worst case, I will have three or four data in my pipelining. I just want to buffer only that much. Okay, so we can choose the smallest possible size to minimize the resource utilization. Okay, so 16 data it can store and I will add a programmable full signal here and there I am putting like 8. That means in ideal case, there shouldn't be any data in the FIFO.

Okay? So if the XC DMA controller is ready to accept data from me, I'll be continuously sending. So effectively, data comes to the FIFO it goes out of the FIFFo so it is like a transfer and prefer but only when he's putting back pressure, I will have problem. So in that case, I'll So once this signal comes out, I will say like, I'm not ready to exit data. So what I'm doing here is if I have 8 data in my FIFO, that means there is some kind of back pressure coming from the master side, I will assert this signal programmable full and this signal will be connected to the ready signal to the slave port.

So once this signal comes out, I will say like I'm not ready to accept data. So he will stop sending it but I already have data in the pipeline 304 that will also get written to the FIFO but my FIFO is 16 deep okay so and I already have 8 still it will make it maybe 11 or 12 bytes inside the FIFO still the FIF0 won't overflow so that's the logic. And that's it, we need only that much, OK, it will introduce two-clock latency, but that is fine, it takes one 18 kilo-bit, OK? So internally it is going to use the block RAM which is 36 kilo-bits for Xilinx, they can break one 36 kilo bit block RAM into two to 18kbps, so it's going to take 18kbps RAM or half block RAM.

Okay, so we will let him generate it but we can quickly go here and take the instantiation template. Okay, so that's instantiated at the top. For the buffer reset PC, okay, ZZYGNX we don't need this is clock reset which is active low So we can directly connect. Okay, this is his slave valet. So as I mentioned before the output from convolution, OData, I will directly connect here. And OData Valet, I'll directly connect here Now whether the FIFO is ready or not, I'm not checking because based on my current logic, okay?

There's no case the FIFO won't be ready. He'll be at the maximum, he'll have a 16, Out of 16 he will have maximum maybe 12 because as soon as he is half full I will say like I can't accept any more data so there is no way like he will overflow and this signal will become low. Okay and output from the FIFO, it will connect to the output broadcast, so this signal okay this we'll connect to the out of broadcast so let me connect everything Let me call it ConVault data, and let's connect that here. Let's call this ConVault.valid, and let us connect it here.

That makes more sense in the name. And this output, okay, M-axis valid, that we will connect to our data valid. and this ready we will directly connect here and data, directly connect to OData and this program will be full. Okay so let's declare a wire. So this will become high when he is full. Okay? So I have this ready signal, that's what I want to manipulate. I will say assign is not of problem when he is not half full So, we have only four line buffer inside our IP. And once we finish processing one of the line buffers, we will send an interrupt to the processor saying, okay, I have a free line buffer, you can send the next line of the image.

Okay? So that's where we are going to use the interrupt signal. So that interrupt signal should become one or become high whenever we have a three-line buffer inside our IAP. IP. How do we know whether we have a free line buffer inside our IP? For that, we need to go back to the control logic and look at our small state machine. So if you remember in the read buffer state, okay, when the read counter becomes 511 and in the next clock it is indicating we have finished reading from a line buffer. So once we have finished trading a line buffer means we have a free line buffer available.

So same case I can use to generate an interrupt signal. Okay, so let's call it OINDR from here itself. We'll make it one and we will go to idle state and in the idle state we'll make it zero. So initialization also, we'll make a second. Now the interrupt signal, It will be only 1 clock wide, okay? The pulse width is only one clock because here I'm making it one. Next clock I'll go to the aisle state and I'll make it zero. Last tutorial I mentioned some cases there is a minimum pulse width requirement for interrupt but since we are going to use edge triggered interrupt this is fine if you're going for level triggered interrupt maybe this will be insufficient.

and since we are using only S-Trigger Interop, it should be perfect. So let's come back here, so let me add that port here and just connect it to the operating tray. Okay, so let's call it core-INTR to indicate it's an output signal. Okay, so that completes our coding for our IP. Everything left is converting it into IPXSAT format so that we can use it in our block design. So that step is exactly same as the previous project where I designed the previous image processing IP, so you go to the tools, create and package new IP, and you choose package your current project not create a new XE very well, choose this one next include XEFL, you should choose it because we have a FIFO, Xilinx core, so he will include that FIFO also

as part of your IP. And he's basically asking where the IPXZ file should be stored. So let's say like directly store wherever my current project is inside that folder. Later we will move this ndef folder to our IP repo because we are keeping all our IPs there. Vivado, Image processing that's where my project is sitting. So I'm just saying keep the IPXZ file there. Okay so vendor okay so let's call our IP just image process let it be its name okay IP for neighborhood image Port mapping, this again I have done in the previous tutorial we just have to SoC, Vivado, Vitis, VDMA, UART, ILA, ILA.

and portmap this data with this data, this valid, with this valid, this ready, with this ready. Okay so the portmapping is done, so he grouped it, M-axis, so similarly we have to group the slave interface also, so next interface choose again AXIStream and here choose slave interface and S-axis to indicate slave interface, and this data to this data, valid to valid, and ready to ready. Okay so again some warnings are there, this is similar to our previous tutorial you need to specify which bus interfaces are controlled by this particular clock, so just double click it go to parameters and add a parameter and Associate tab, Associate tab, First interface, Value, M underscore axis, axis, colon, S underscore

axis. These are the two interfaces. Okay so that one goes away. Optionally you can add 34 clock frequency also which is 100 megahertz but without that also everything looks fine. OK, so that's it. Now there is no addressing GUI. It is going to look something like this as expected and just go review and review and package your IP. Now it is ready to use in your block design but one important thing we missed we have in simulated our IP whether it is really working or not we haven't checked that we will be doing in the next tutorial. Thank you.
