Hello all, in the previous tutorial we completed coding for our IP core and we packaged it also but we never verified it. We never checked whether it is working properly or not. So we have to do simulation. So for all the coding that we have done till this point we did simulation just by forcing the signal in the waveform window. So for this IP core that's not going to work because if you really want to check whether it is working we'll have to really send the image and check whether the output is coming properly or not and that you won't be able to do using waveform forcing.

so we'll have a proper test bench in this case so let's go ahead and write the test bench now The test bench I am trying to write is the minimal test bench. I'm not going the proper, what you say coding methodology for test benches because at this point of time my only aim is to check whether my IP is working or not. Maybe we'll make a different tutorial on Vilog where we can discuss the different verification methodology, what are the proper way of writing test bench, things like that. Okay, so today I'm just writing a manual test bench which will actually read an image and send it to our IP. And it will receive the data coming from the IP and you'll be able to see the actual output.

Okay, so status and new source and we'll choose this option simulation source because if you choose that option Vivado will automatically find like this module it's only for simulation So he will never use it for implementation. So let's call it tv.v And I guess you understand test ventures, they represent the external world for the piece of hardware that we are simulating so it is supposed to give all the signals coming from the external world as well as accepting all the signals coming from our hardware Now when you write test ventures You have more flexibility because you are not aiming to synthesize it, you are not aiming to really implement it in hardware in most of the cases. So you have more

flexibility so we will see. You can write more programming constructs like you can write for or while loops things like that the same way you write it in C programming or other high-level programming. So as I mentioned, so in Vivado once you choose This is a simulation source, it will never come under design source, it'll just come under simulation sources. So here our test bench is sitting and we can go ahead and open it and can start. And again test benders they represent the external world of our hardware so the test benders it won't be getting any signal from the outside or it won't So this is the first thing we will do, we will just go ahead and instantiate our hardware inside

our test match. So this is our image processing top so let's call it usually we call it DUT The instance name, design under test and let's try to do some port mapping. Okay so first thing you obviously need is a clock, so let's try to create a clock and this is one way you can create clock signals. So you can initial okay we'll make a signal called clock and let's initially make it say 1TPU0 0, then we can write an infinite or its block for our block. Okay, we can and you can say clock is not of clock you can either use this one or you can use the tilde, what a fine clock is not clock and it should happen after every phi unit of Now, when I write 5 here, what is the unit is defined by the time scale. Here we have nanoseconds,

that means after every 5 nanosecond you want to make clock equal to notclock. So this will effectively make a square wave which has a period of 10 nanosecond because you are talking So that's it, so that's our clock signal. We can end and we can declare it. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. So that initial part you need to skip, you need to just read it from the file and just discard it. So for I equal to 0 now how many bytes are there in the header? If you remember it is 438 hexadecimal this is Vilog so we have tickedify instead of hash define 1080 in decimal okay so this is the header size.

So what I'm doing is, I am just reading, da da, i less than header size, i equal to i plus 1, i equal i plus 1. Okay? I am going to read byte by byte so we have the system function, you know, Fscanf. Syntax is F-scan of the pointer to the file, what you want to read? I want to read 1 byte at a time so we can use %c followed by where you want to store that data. Okay so let's call it some image or something okay but it's the header part of course So what I'm trying to do is, I'll be reading from this file and at the end I will need to see the output image after processing. Now again remember I am sending only pixel part to my IP he will process it and he will give me back the pixel part.

If you really want to open that file and see it as an image in Windows SoC, so this is the output file. So you can see here that all the files should also have the header part. But the header part remains same for your input image as well as the process image because all the information is same like what is the file size, what is the resolution, what color coding is used, all those information are same. from my input file and I can just write to an output file. Now later the processed pixels I will append to that output file so that later I can open that file and see it in Windows. So we need to open one more file, so let's call it File 1 and let's say $FOPN and let's call

OLED, maybe BLURD, LENOR, DMP and we are opening it in the right mode. Okay? It's a binary file. So I will read the header one byte at a time and I will just write that. So F, it's not F-printf, it's F right here. Okay? $F right. File formatting again %C. Let's say, ImageData. We need to declare it. ImageData, let's say 8-bit data, so we can say, 0x7.0 image data. Okay, so we need to declare this file, file1 also. The point is there should So you will see like this is more like software coding now. Okay, so I found out that I have a lot of things to do with my computer. So let's go ahead and check the screen. So if I want to check the screen, I can check the screen. So I can check

the screen. And then I can check it. So I'm going to check the screen. So let me check the screen here. So I've got some things to do OK, so I finished reading the header part. I copied the header part to my audiophile. Next we'll send the actual pixel data to my IP. OK? So what I'm going to do is in real world also this is what we do. We have four line buffers inside our IP. So I can read four lines from the image and directly sent it to my IP, OK? So I'm going to read four lines and I just send them to the IP. I cannot send the fifth line because I don't have any free line to send the fifth line. I will send the fifth line when the IP will say he's ready to accept the next line how he'll tell me through the interrupt signal.

OK so let's go ahead and read the four lines. OK so 4i equals 0 i less than one line is Vitis, Vitis, so 4 times 512, I equal to I plus 1. So the code looks similar to the previous one itself. We will do this one, Fscan of image data and we need to give it to the IP. So how do we give it to the ip? I will give it to IP by asserting the valid signal to the IP, make sense? Yeah, So we will say, we will read it and on the next post-e-h of the clock because we have a synchronous system. So we need to wait till the next post e-h. Okay so we are waiting till the next post e-H then we will say image data valid is so where this should be connected This should be connected to iDataValet and this image data should be connected

to iData. Now, this image data is not going to the IP because my image data Valet, WON'T BE ASSERTED SIR. The beginning itself, let me make it zero. Let's declare it. Vrij image.valid. It's better we read it on the clock edge. So after the clock edge, we read from the file and make the valid. All right. Okay so once we send four lines, what we need to do? We need to wait for the intro signal because that intro signal is telling me there is a free line available now to send the next line of data. So I will de-assert this valid signal because I am not going to send any data until I get the intro, so we need to wait until the intro when you get an intro you send the next one

again wait for the introduction when you get on intro you send in the next line. How long you should send like that? You should send like until you send the entire image to your IP. So, that I can write something like this. So let's say while we have some variable which tells me how much data I have sent till now. So let us say like send size or something OK, maybe at the beginning we will say send size is 0. Now we are not worried about what is the XSCT width and all here because it's a test bench, we are not going to implement it.

We are not worried of our true source utilization so send size let's initialize to 0 and once I sent this much data that means I have sent 4 times 5 to I have sent back much data. Vail-SendSize is less than the total image size Let's declare it here, tick-define, ImageSize is 512 times 512 That's the image size, so while SendSize is less then ImageSize See you can use VialuPentode just like Zilgo, what you will do is you will wait for the intro Okay, so we are doing an edge-sensitive interrupting. So I am just waiting for the interrupt signal to come. So this basically means wait for a rising edge of interrupt.

So this interrupt you'll connect it here and we'll declare it. It's an output so it should be quiet. You wait for an interrupt and once you get an interrupt you will send next line of data. OK, so how do you send next line? For same similar code. So for this much but you are sending only one line. So I equal to 0, I less than 512, PIKINENT and on the next posted clock edge you will read from the file the next pixel value and you'll also make the signal high and once you finish sending one full line on the next core post-UH, you will make the valid signals.

So you should change all these signals only after a post-UHH of the clock because then only it becomes synchronous. If you do it without this post-Uhh what happens is your image data will be high and immediately after you come out of the loop image data will become on the same clock edge. So your IP won't be seeing like this valid signal high for one clock cycle. You should do it, something like that. OK so this signal did we connect it? Yes, yes, we have connected. Now this ready signal I'm not looking at this ready because I assume my IP is always ready to accept data OK, to keep things simple.

How will I make sure my IP is always ready to accept data? By making sure I am always ready to accept the data given by him. So remember we have a FIFO inside which is controlling this ready signal. So as long as we tell the FIFO I'm ready to accept that. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA-SPF, XSct, ILA. to the output file. So, the output file size we are expecting it to be same as the input file size but remember I discussed when you do convolution you are doing like this right so we are going like this going like this there will be an issue of dimensionality reduction okay there will be one row missing at the top and one row missing at the bottom. Similarly, column-wise also you will be missing two columns here but in our

implementation that issue won't come okay that we'll discuss later but row-wise we will have that issue so I am sending first four lines so he is doing convolution like this so effectively we are finding pixels corresponding starting this second row and final convolution will So we will be finding the output corresponding to this row. So there is a convolution missing for this row as well as this row. So because of that, there'll be a dimensional reduction. Now to all commit, we will be sending two dummy lines. So that two dummy lines may be one line you can send before and one line you and one line you can send after. In our case, maybe it is better to send two dummy lines towards the end

because at the beginning I am sending four lines blindly right? So you'll see like there might be some slight shifting in the image because of this sending the dummy line but without those dummy lines the output image size will be less than the input image size and since we are using So to avoid it, let me send two dummy lines also. So same way once I come out of this loop, I will make this zero, OK, then I will send two dummy lights. OK, so we can use this one. So we'll wait for an interrupt, pause, search, reset, oh sorry.

For Search Reset, oh sorry, we will wait for intro to the integer and we will send one line. There is nothing to read from the file so we can just say image.is0 because the file is already empty. Now, once we send first line again we can wait for next interrupt and we can again send one more. After that we can make the latter value. Ok so it's a good idea once you have used a file, close it before exiting the simulation BolaF close, and the file point. OK so that's it. So the writing part is only this much. Now we need to write the logic which accepts data from our IP and write it to the output file.

So the header part of the output file we have already written. Now we need right the pixel part of it. So how can we do it? We will just check whether any valid data is coming. So let's say like output.value here, we'll just check whether the signal is high. If the signal is High means there is a valid output data. Output data, let's call it like that and whenever it comes, we will write it to the output file. Output file is file one, that is the pointer. So similar to this, let's say File 1, %C, let's declare them, is 8-bit outputs for wire and we also have that wire.

Ok so how do we know like whether we have finished? Ok so for that we can use another counter which will basically increment each time we receive a new data and whenever we receive all 512x52 data, we can stop the solution. So we'll say integer received data, let's initialize to zero. And whenever we get a data here, and if received data is our image size, that means we received all the data, We can close this output file, you should close the output file so that all data is updated there. And one, and you can stop the simulation, $stop. So this will just stop the simulation but the waveform will be still there.

If you write $finish, you'll exit from the simulator also. So better keep $stop. So that's it, so that completes our simple test bench. So you might have noticed our code looks more like software programming. So, Vilog as a programming language, it is also a Turing-complete programming language. So basically anything your C program can do, Vilong can also do. It's as good as C in theoretical point. But whether it will be efficient the same way as C is a different question. But it can also do file manipulation, and the input output control, and all looping, all the offensive everything. It is seen as a programming language.

Okay so that's it now we can go ahead and simulate and see so we need to go to settings and the simulation we need to make sure the simulation top module name is DB, it is already DB and when you try to simulate here you are getting an error here a lot of error is actually coming so it's basically saying line 62 file pointer file descriptor is not valid okay so he is basically unable to open our file. So this LANR is not able to find actually. Because if you write like this, the assumption is this file is available in the current working directory or current simulation folder so you'll see the one here.

File LANR, GRABIMP could not be opened. So where you should keep this file? You can actually keep the file wherever you want. In that case you will have to give the full path to this file, but if you are writing like this where the assumption is the file is in your current simulation folder what you should do is you should copy this file to that location. So we are in Vivado, image processing You go there, there is a SIM folder under that SIM1 behavioral axi. This is the current simulation directory. So you should keep it here.

SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA. File1, we are reading from file writing to file1, OK, so we change the code so we need to re-launch simulation this time. We need to recompile and let's run this time no errors are coming. We can see the waveform actually and it actually stopped here you can see in the waveform how data is going and where the data is coming. OK, so this is where image data, this is the data we are sending. Looks fine. This is our image data variant signal. So this is where we are sending data. 3v3.8 looks fine. And Outvaluate, OK, this is where getting data. OK, so there is some latency. So remember we have the line buffer only after filling the line buffer we will start getting output data.

and here you can see interrupts are coming. So in between where interrupts are coming there is some break here, right? Only after getting the interrupt we will send the next line. Okay so we can go and check the output. Okay, so here is the output blood, Linard or BMP and open it. Okay, so if you remember the output from MATLAB It is looking exactly same. This is the original and this is the blood so you can see some blurring effect is there Now, as I mentioned before there is a slight shifting, okay? So it seems like there is some additional row at the top and an additional column at the right. That's what happened.

Now we send that dummy line towards the end but it seems like the additional row came on and the top, okay. So let me just give a clue in a BMP image, the first pixel, okay, inside that file is actually representing the bottom left pixel so data is stored like this it is not stored like this in the BMP image okay so I guess based on that you can find out how the shifting is coming at the top now towards the right one what is actually happening So when we wrote our line buffer, we didn't care like what happens when you are reading from this position. We always read from some pixel position and we send that pixel and the next two consecutive pixels. That's how we wrote it. Remember? So if you look at your

Line buffer, we set like our out data is read pointer, read pointer 1, read pointer 2. Okay? Okay so what happens when we are here? We he will send this, this and this. And what happens when he is here? Read pointer, read point plus one and read pointer plus two because of the read pointer size is 9 it will automatically offer to zero. So you are sending this, this and this. When you are sending this pixel, you are sending this, this, and this. So that's why you don't have to explicitly worry about the width of the image changing because that is automatically taken care... Instead of having dummy columns, you're actually sending this one and these two when you are reading from

these last two pixels. Okay? Yeah so that's it! So it seems like our IPs working perfectly. Maybe I would like to show one more thing, what is the advantage of having a four-line buffer? What happens if you don't have four-line buffers? So notice here how much So, we have to do this. So, let's go back to the next slide. So, first time you took for entire processing approximately 2.64 milliseconds. That is the total time taken. Now assume we didn't have that four-line buffer. We had only three line buffer. How your code will change?

If you have only three-line buffer at the beginning, okay, at the beginning you cannot send four. At the beginning you can send only three because you have only 3-line buffer so you ZENZ3, ZENZ size, link, 3x512 and this part remains same because we are directly taking image size. Okay so this is how it will look like. Close the output 2.64. Okay so let me recompile. Let's run again if you check the output still the same so I think it's still working but The problem is the time taken is 5.2, which is approximately double of the previous time.

So if you see your image data value how it is going to see previously it was consecutive but now it is like he will send line buffer one line buffer data so at the beginning he sent three together see here he sent three then he's waiting for the interrupt to come Till that he is not sending. Now, interrupt came, he sent one line, okay? So only after we send this line, the internal convolution is happening. So that is happening during this much time and during this much times he cannot send because there is no interrupt.

So after that time, interrupt comes, he sends the next one. So this is more like sequential and because of that, we have peak performance penalty. That's why we added that fourth line buffer. Now if you ask whether there will be improvement, if you again increase the number of line buffers, yes it is possible sometimes you may get some little bit more timing improvement but not a drastic one. So bare minimum you need to keep height of the kernel plus one, that many line buffers you should keep inside your hardware.

OK, so I guess now you have some idea about our simulation. So in next tutorial we will build a complete system and integrate our IP core with the ThinkProcessor. Thank you.
