Hello and welcome back. In the last tutorial we have simulated our IP core and made sure it's working properly. So this tutorial, we are going to build a system which is going to use this IP core. So most of the system development, it is similar to the DMA system that we developed before. So most of things will look familiar. So first thing I'm going to do is I'm just repackaging my IP so that the test bench is also made part of my IP package. So I'm just re-packaging it and I'm opening a new project for building my block design.

Let's call it Image Processing System. So I will also move my current project, this one to my IP core folder because I'm keeping all my IPs in this folder and our competent.xml is actually sitting here. So let's move that also to the same folder. Our last project. Okay so here first thing I'm going to do is configure the IP repository. Go here and IP repository. Okay then create block design, add the processor, Zynq processing system, block automation and let's add our IP also, image process, okay, our IP is here. Now remember the architecture, we are going to interface our IP to the processor through the DMA controller. So let's go ahead and add the direct memory access, XIDMA, we need to customize it, same as last

at a Gather and keep this with the maximum both read and write channel and allow an aligned transfer. So if you don't remember what these things are, please go back and refer to the tutorial on DMA. Let's also increase this width. Okay now here there is an important thing memory map data width that's fine stream data width okay so this is the width of the interface which will be interfaced with our IP. Now remember, our IP has 8-bit interface, okay? The master as well as the slave interfaces they are 8-width so this interface, this is the interface which is reading from the memory and writing to our IP that I can change to 8 but this interface I don't know why Xilinx they always keep it 32. There is no way you can change it,

It is fixed at 32. Okay so we'll see how to solve it. Okay so, we added our DMA controller, connection automation, so that the XC-Lite of the DMA controller gets connected to the GP port of the processor. Okay so that is done. Now, MM2S and S2MM We will connect them, so as I mentioned before, the AXI stream here we need to connect to master AXIS memory map to stream. This data width is 8, this is also 8, so no problem you can drag and drop. Now this data width our master interface is 8 bits wide but this interface is 32 bit okay So it will let you drag and drop and connect it, but the problem is only the lower 7-8 bits The upper bits will always remain zero.

So, when you are sending some data from here he will be actually sending four pixels at a time because as far as he is concerned his interface is 32 bits. So he will be sending four pixels to the memory only one of them will be the real valid pixel remaining will be all zero because of this width mismatch so what you need to do is We need to concatenate four consecutive pixels coming out of this master interface, convert it into 32-bit then connect it here. Okay so that's what you have to do but fortunately Xilinx they have an IP core to do that There is a AXI4-Stream data width converter so we need to take that IP and let's bring it here and here let's see okay, Mass-free interface, TDATA width. That is we have 32 so again this

is in terms of bytes so it is 4 bytes slave interface keep it in auto heal automatically detected okay so now if you see this side of this IP is 8 this side of IP, IP32, IP2, IP32-1, IP32 IP32-2, IP3-1, So the clocks we can connect, okay. So both clocks got connected, reset, we can connect here, a reset and okay. Now very few things are remaining one is we need to connect this DMA controller PCAP port, which stands for Accelerator Coherency Port. Now remember what was meant by coherency? So when you have a processor and a memory and in between a cache memory, the data that this processor is sending it will not immediately go to memory but it will be initially cached and later it will be going to the memory.

Same way, when you read from the memory processor initially checks whether data is in the cache. If that is in the case, it will be taken from the cache. It won't be checking the main memory. Now remember when we did some of our previous tutorial, we had this issue, right? The data I'm writing to the memory is not the one going through DMA. When we did the DMA tutorial that issue was there. So that's where we used the decash flash instruction to flash the cache. If you use this port, ACP port, it will guarantee cache coherency.

So if any IP reads or writes through this interface, it will make sure the cache is updated along with the memory. Same way if the IP is reading from the memory, it will make sure the memory is updated with the current copy in the cache. So let's enable it by default that is disabled we can enable it, ACP port, you can use HP port also, same way we did last time, nothing extra. So connection automation, ACP clock, this clock we can just connect to all other clocks and S2MM, we can connect to the ACP. So you can see this, or this one, this MM2S and S2M, they got connected to a smart interconnect and this time it got connected to the ACB instead of the HP port. Okay so that's something extra now the last step, the interrupt okay.

SoC, Last time, DMA. For DMA also we used polling method. We didn't use the interrupt mechanism for the DMA controller. But if you see the DMA Controller you can see it has two interrupt output. One is MM2S interrupt which will be asserted when memory map to stream data transfer is over. Similarly S2MM which will be assertive when device-to-memory data transfer is In our case, I'm not really interested in MM2S intro because this is basically telling he has finished data transfer to the IP but that is not giving any extra information to me. I can transfer a new data only when the IP says he's ready to accept data.

OK, so I'm only interested in this intro from the IP for transmitting from memory to the IP. But S2MM, I'll be interested because that is basically telling he has finished transmission from my IP to the memory. So when that interrupt gets asserted, I can make sure the data processing is over. Okay, so I'm interested in two interrupts, S2MM interrupt from DMA as well as the interrupt from the IP. So first we need to enable the interrupt same as last time. So we have to go here, go to interrupt and fabric interrupt and IRQF2P if you remember last time I mentioned if you have If you have a single interrupt, you can just drag and drop. But now you have two, so this doesn't work.

Because this is a bus here and you have two independent wires here. So you need to concatenate these two interrupt lines And connect it here as a bus for that you have to use the concat IP TakeOnCat IP, this one, internally there is no logic here inside this IP he just converts wires into a bus that's it so his number of ports input 1 and output will be a bus of two wires okay that's enough so we can take this interrupt Connect here, we can take this interrupt, connect here and now this two bit bus we can connect here. Okay so that's it save it, check address editor that everything is address mapped okay processor can control DMA and DMA can control DDR okay through

ACP port, you can also access the external QSPI. So there is an SPI chip, flash chip also on the board if you wish you can access that chip also through this ACP port but we are not interested in that. Okay so everything looks fine finally let's verify our design these findings are fine There's no T last, okay that's also an optional signal so that's also fine. Now if you wish for debugging we can add the debug go and see whether things are working properly or not. So let's add the debug so let's see how signals are coming to our IP. So I have that to debug how it is going out of our IP. We can Check where the interrupt signal is coming from our IP OK, so I guess these many signals are enough

So run connection automation and insert the ILA core After this you can just create the wrapper Generate output product, export to SDK and finally generate the pitch stream OK, so now I'll actually generate bitstream and I will export to SDK and how to develop the software for this. We'll see in the next tutorial. Thank you.
