Hello all, in the last tutorial we have completed the hardware design part of our system which uses our image processing IP. So in today's tutorial we will be discussing the software part of the system in order to verify it on hardware. So we'll be reusing many concepts which we have covered in the previous tutorial. We will be reusing the DMA controller, we will be using the intro controller, we may I will be reusing a lot of the code that we discussed before. Before that, I would like to mention one thing. So in our previous tutorial, we sent an image to our board using the UART interface and you have seen like that's a very slow process.

process. So today I will try to show another technique where you can store large data directly in the external DDR without setting it through any of the interface. So provided that you want to use some data which is fixed like for example an image for testing our system, I just want So, I want to get an image in my system memory. One way to do is make it part of your software code itself. So what I mean is if you have an image it is simply a big array of numbers right? So instead of sending the image from external world, you can create a static array of that big numbers and make it part of your software source code itself.

So that's what I am trying to do first. So we have the image of Lena. So I know it contains only numbers, vital by vital numbers. I will take those numbers and store it as a character array. Then later that array can be used in my C program to send the image to my peripheral. Now this part you can do using any software application from hex editor, maybe you can simply copy paste or you can use a python script or whatever but I'm going to use Verilog itself. to do it. So as I mentioned before, Verilog is also a programming language, it's also Turing-complete.

It can do anything that your C program can do. Okay? So since it can do file handling also, I can use Verilog for reading the image data and print it into a text file. So I'm going back and opening my old project which we use for generating our IP And I am going to slightly modify my test bench. Okay let's go ahead and open the test bench so what I'm going to do here is whenever I read data from my image See, we used the F-scanner to read data from that image file. I will write the same information into another text file. Then I'll be using that text file as part of my C code. Okay, so let me open one more file. Let's call it File2 and we will say File2 equal

to Open, let's call it ImageData.h because we use it as a header file there. And simply 0DW, because it's not a binary file. This is a text file. Now this is the header part we are reading. We are not interested in header part. We are interested in the image part. OK, here we are reading the first four lines. So when I am reading it, I will write it also. Dollar F right, File 2, we'll store it in decimal format. OK, % 0D, Image data. And since it is like an array I want in C core, let's put a comma also after each number.

Now same information I will store here also. Here we are sending the remaining image byte by byte, so at the same time let me store it in this file also. Image data. Okay so after this we are sending two dummy lines also as I mentioned before for proper convolution to happen we need DMA, DMA, ILA, ILA also, ILA and ILA also. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ILA, ILA, Vivido, Vivido and Simulate my code, so while I run simulation it will be correcting it. Okay so there is some error in my code now Vivado when you have error in simulation it might not directly come here that is logged in to separate file depending upon whether the error came during compilation or error came during

something called during elaboration so this time we have error in elaboration So we need to go and check this file, elaborate.log, that file will be open file in your current project, okay, inside there will be a sim folder, inside that sim1 behavior, XSim, inside that folder you will see elaborate.log You'll also see compile.log, but we don't have error in compilation, we have error in so-called elaboration Linking, OK so LITE60, OK, undefined system function, open, OK, correct it, so let's rerun, OK so let's run the simulation.

Simulation is over now if you go to the folder, this sim folder, you'll be able to see this imagedata.h, which was created and if you open that file you can see the image data in text format. Okay this is that enter image information every pixel. So I'm going to use this file in my C code so what I will do is I'll just make it as a array of characters so let's say like char image data and if I put an early bracket here, and at the end after removing this coma, this became array of characters. Now if I include this file in my C code, this array becomes part of my C program itself.

So the image is part of my program itself. I don't have to send it from the external way. So this technique you can use in many places where you want to have some constant data in your program and you don't want to send it through external interfaces. Okay, good enough so that's about this part. Now let's go back to our old project, OK, because we changed some files here he is saying IP has changed but don't worry I have already generated the bitstream. Let's export our hardware and launch SDK. Okay, here is our SDK. Let's go ahead and start a new application project.

Let's call it image IP test and empty application. So the first thing I'm going to do is to bring that header file, The constant array of images that we just generated to my project here. So, we go to source and choose import. You can copy-paste it but this is a better way. So file system and just browse and find it out. OK, this PC. So, so that came into our project. Okay. Now let's start as C source file. Let's call this also image test, image ip test dot c. So as I mentioned before, I'm going to reuse a lot of my code.

So I have already kept my previous codes here. So first thing let's add the DMA because we have the DMA controller in our system which is used for sending as well as receiving data from the IP core. But the difference is last time our DMA was on complete porting mode but this time we will be changing it to inter-based So this part we can reuse the header file and all. And this halted function, this was used for polling to check whether controller is halted or not. Let's see whether you want it or not. So let's basically copy paste everything and remove the things which we don't need.

So these are the arrays we don't need this time. Status, Config, LookupConfig we need, Initialization, Check, Halt-Tat this we don't it and Flushing and all we don't need this time, Cache, we are using the ACP port and also we are not sending data through UART, It is part of your program now. And this is where you are sending and receiving data. Okay, so this part needs to wait. Okay, let's do still DMA initialization and remaining part we will see. Okay, so, this is where the polling was happening and we might not need the polling. This is where finally we are printing the result after DMA. Okay, SoC, this part can wait. Let's come back here

and see whether we need to do something more. Here, we need to one more thing because this time we are going to use interrupt and by default interrupts are not enabled in the DMA controller so usually any IP core which supports interrupt there will be some register called interrupt control register and you need to configure that register or you need to write some value to that register in order to enable the interrupt otherwise the interrupt won't be coming it will be by default in polling mode so if you go to the XXIDMA header file you will find a function let's check interrupt yeah this function XXIDMA interrupt enable so this is the function used for enabling the

intro. So we need to enable intro, it's declared as an inline function that's why it's looking like this so we need to enable the intro now remember in the block design let's close this project in the block design i mentioned we are interested only in one intro the S2MM intro that means device to memory Interop. Okay, we are not interested in memory to device interrupt because instead of that interrupt I am directly using the interrupt from my IP core. So let's bring this function here to enable interrupt. We need to pass the instance pointer to the DMA controller.

Okay, we need to send a mask okay so that mask basically says which interrupts are enabled which interrupts are disabled. Again, you can go and check the data sheet to find out what values should be stored in the interrupt register to enable particular interrupts or you can go to this header file XXIDMA underscore BD dot H where they are declaring, oh no, this header file I guess, This one, XXIDMAhardware.h where they are declaring all these masks as constant. So we need to enable something called the input-output interrupt. Okay?

So here you can see, okay, hold that mask. Okay, these are the interrupt masks. So we need to enable the mask for input output Okay, so the interrupt can happen if there is input-output completion. That means the DMA controller finished some operation. Okay, so there is something called a delay interrupt and there is another interrupt in case some error happens. So we are interested in this one, input-output, completion interrupt. So you give that as the mask and direction. Okay, we have seen there are two kinds of directions, device to DMA, DMA to device.

So we are interested in which one? Device to DMA Ok, so that's it. So we configured the interrupt also. So we enabled the interrupts Ok, so at this point don't worry about the errors Fine, so DMA part we have done. Next one we will do the interrupt controller part So again that we did in the previous tutorial so we can take these two and we have the intrap instance and the intrap service routine okay we'll come back to that okay so this is the intrap controller declaration of ISR now we don't need these things okay this is the config that we need let's write some comments DMA controller configuration, Intrep controller configuration, This we need, this we need or this we need.

After that this is where we set the priority for particular interrupt. So this time we have two interrupts, so you need to do this for both interrupts. Fine? So take it from that and this is set priority and this is the IRQ number. Okay? So this time We have two interrupts, so if you go to experimenters, you will see two interrupts, 61 and 62 with two different IRQ numbers. So you need to configure both. First let's configure the interrupt for our image processing IP. Okay, so we need to say here this one. Okay, priority, okay, Let's keep A0, this is edge triggered interrupt so we keep edge triggered interrupt and this one connect one particular IRQ with a particular interrupt service routine. So we have here

something called merge ISR instead of that let's try to call it image processing ISR So that ISR we will write. What should happen when the processor gets an interrupt from our image processing IP? What should happen? We need to write inside this ISR. The third one is a pointer to whichever peripheral is giving this interrupt. So let's keep it zero itself for the time being, maybe later you can and change it. Okay, so that's it. Interrupt enabled. So here also we need to enable that particular interrupt. So again this one. Okay, first interrupt we are done and there is one more interrupt. So copy paste it and change the ISR to this one. Ok, this one, this one The priority we need to keep is

So, let's give two different priorities. Let's give it slightly lesser priority. This one is called DMA OcaReceive ISR. That is the Intro Service Routine when we get an intro from the DMA controller. Okay so we will write that one also but let's just Declare it static with the declaration of ISR will be always static void as return type this one and you can pass one parameter we will see it later so for the time being this parameter keep it zero the pointer to the structure representing the hardware let's keep that also zero.

And here let's enable this interrupt also. Okay, so that part is also done. Now this part is like a fixed one you always needed which connects the interrupt service route interrupt controller with operating system. Okay so that's also done. Okay so this part maybe yeah we can start now. Okay, so now we are starting to actually send data. Okay? So first let's configure the receive part, device-to-DMA. How much data we are expecting? We are expecting the entire image data. So 512 by 512. Remember this is the receive part.

So this is configuring how much data you are expecting from your IP to the memory, okay? That we can continuously stream. So we just configure it 512 by 512 where you want to store that data. Okay so let's override the data in the memory. So we already have this array image data and whenever the processed image data comes back let's overwrite it. So it's enough to just write image data here. Okay, looks fine. That's the received part. Now transmitting part again remember similar to our test bench you have four line buffers so you cannot stream the entire image to your IP in one shot. You can stream only four lines at a time and once he gives an interrupt saying like he has finished processing one line buffer

You can send the next line, fine? Okay. So here again, image data because that is the starting address I am starting to send from image data How much data you want to send initially? Four times five times. If you like, you can declare all these as constants at the beginning. Okay, fine. A undeclared, okay so let's save it. OK, so that error goes away. Here somewhere is the image data. Yeah we need to include that header file, hash include image.h. Then only it's part of our code. There are some errors here. Let's see image proc isr.

OK, we have just declared them but we haven't defined them. We will define them so let them be there. Here, integer from pointer without cast. OK, that's fine actually. If you are a perfectionist you can write 32 because he is expecting a 32 bit number which is unheard of. OK, fine. So this one was basically the polling so we don't need this anymore because we are intrapaste but remember if you just write your code this much your processor will do this much and it will exit from the main code so you should not make the processor exit from the code you need to keep the processor in some kind of loop until the entire operation is over so when we will We will finish our operation when the entire image is processed.

Okay, so to that part we will come back how to make sure whether the entire image processing is finished. So, for doing that we will have to complete our Interrupt Service Routines first. Okay so let's go ahead and write our Interrupt service routines. So first one is this one, this ISR, Image Prose ISR. So remember this ISR will be automatically called when our IP gives an interrupt basically VIT, VIT, ILA, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, ILA- VIT, OK, so if you just write it like that always he will start sending from the first pixel of the image.

So you don't want to do that. OK? So instead of that what we can do is OK, so we can say ampersand I times 512 something like that and we will keep on incrementing the I, I plus. OK, so each time when we call the ISR, I will be incrementing. So first he sends first line buffer, next time I will be 2 so next line buffer so on and so forth and node 4 times vital we want to send only one line buffer so just vital. Now we need to declare I and what should be the initial value of I because we have already sent four line buffers here okay so we need to initialize I with 4 because I want to start descending from fourth or sorry fifth line buffer, okay so I should be four. Okay now the problem with

this code is as you know this is a function this is a local variable each time when the ISR is called I will be initialized to 4 but you don't want that to happen each time uh I shouldn't be initialized it should be initialized only once so that next time when the function is called I will have data, but whether you always want to send it, you want to send only until you finish processing. So how many lines do you want to set? The 512 lines of the image and the 2 dummy lines at the end. So we'll say like if I is less than 514 you will do it.

Oh, this is not really look. Okay, 514 you want to do it. After that you don't want to do because this condition shows that you have finished sending the entire image. Okay so after this we need to add some standard things in ISR. So again remember when you get an intro first thing you need to do is disable that intro, do whatever you want to do and after that re-enable the intro. Okay so that code we already have in our previous project okay this one this is the function to disable it and we need to save which intro so this is our old one now it is this one image Edge processing, and before you return from the function, you re-enable the edge.

Okay? So this watch looks fine. But there is one more catch. Okay? Suppose you got an interrupt. You came here and you are trying to send the next So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, UART, ILA. 4-line buffers, but as soon as he finishes sending 3-line buffers our IP will start the filtering operation and it is possible that our IP will finish that convolution operation before the fourth line reaches our IP so our DMA controller is still sending the fourth one but our IP finished the first round of convolution and he gave us intro. And as soon as we got intro, we are sending the fifth line here but the problem is the fourth line was not completely sent this may cause issue

okay so to avoid it what you should do is you need to make sure that the DMA controller is idle he has finished sending the previous data before transferring this new data. Okay, so for that we are actually going to use some kind of product. So last time we used this one, CheckHaulter which is basically checking whether the halt bit in the DMA controller is 1 or not. So if you remember our XC-DMA IP, so we were checking the status register to see whether he is idle or not, this one, or this one that is controlled, this one.

So we were checking this bit to check whether he is halted. If he is halted, that means he's done you will transfer the next byte. But let me say one thing, this is not in the document but from my personal experience. Sometimes you will see it is saying he is halted, sometimes he will say he's idle. So whenever you are doing dynamic memory allocation and if the DMA controller is trying to transfer from dynamically allocated area from the DDA, he is making the halter bit high. If he is sending from the static part instead of halted he is saying he is ideal. I really don't know in the documentation there is no clear description I and calling it CheckIdle to see whether the DMA controller is idle.

And here everything remains same. Instead of Haltert mask that is also coming from here, I'll be checking whether he's idle. Again remember if you are doing dynamic memory allocation, check for Haltert. If you're using static allocation because now our image is statically allocated ID, CheckForIdle, not HODL. So I will just check the int status, so we'll say status equal to CheckIdle, Base address, okay we have it from our previous code this one, address for because this is memory device, check IDLE, XSCT, VMA base address plus 4. Now if status equal to equal to 0, or we need to say while status equal to equal zero, we keep on reading it until it becomes 4. Status not equal to 1, or if status QkeypondTrading,

Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPF, ILA‐SPF, ILA-SpF, ILL. Vipin is a software software, Vipin has been used for the use of Vipin and Vipin. Vipin can be used for the usage of Vipen and Vipen. Vipin also uses Vipin as a software, Vipin uses Vipen as a software, Now one way to avoid it is like our Interop controller, you can declare this also as a global variable, This one and you can directly access it. But the proper way of doing it is, as I mentioned before, When you make your Interop service routine, it can actually take one parameter And that parameter will be a pointer to the hardware which is giving Interop So in our case, the interrupt is not given by DMA controller here. It is given by our IP

But still we can pass a pointer to the DMA controller so that we can access it within our ISR Okay, so it should be a pointer So let's call it like usually we call it the callback because if you look at this function Connect, OK, this last one, Voidstar call back reference. You can use whatever name you want but the type should be a pointer to void and here when you are linking an ISR with a particular IR cube you can pass the pointer also so let me say like ampersand, myDMA, it should be the pointer to the hardware but let's typecast it to void.

So what happens is whenever the ISR is called, Intrep Service Routine is called, this pointer will be automatically passed to the ISR you don't have to explicitly do it okay so the pointer to the DMA controller, it will automatically come to this Interim Service Root. So this is actually representing the pointer to DMA controller. Okay so instead of ampersand myDMA what you can do is he's expecting a pointer to the DMA controller so let's again typecast XIDMA*, and this will be the pointer to DMA controller. So once you do like this, that error will go away. Okay? So this last parameter is a pointer to... You can actually pass any pointer but usually we pass the pointer

to the device which generates the interrupt and that pointer will be automatically passed to the interrupt service routine whenever the interrupt service route in is invoked. So based on that, that comes here and everything works fine. That's it. So whenever you get an intro, you are sending a new line. Now let's write the next intro service routine. So there also let's pass this pointer and there also let me pass this pointer to my dealer controller because we might So what is happening here? So this interrupt will come when the DMA controller says he has received all the configured data from my IP, which is basically indicating that the image processing operation is over.

That's it. OK, so that's how I find out why image processing is over. So what I should do once I finish image processing, I want to see the image output. Okay? So to send back the image to our computer we will again use the URL control. So what I'm going to do is here, I will simply make some signal called done equal to 1 And my main ‐ he will be simply waiting for this to done. While done is zero, he's just waiting. So I need done at both places so we have to declare it as a global variable, int done. And once I find like he has done, I can send the image back to my computer through the UART.

For that I am going to reuse the code from our image inversion So we have the same thing, we need these two this much And we need to initialize UART Usually we initialize the UART first We don't want MLF, we want this one, look up config Initialize, ZedBoard rate, KAP, we need this much and once we finish processing so we can transmit it back to my computer. So here okay so we are not sending file size we are sending only the image part So let's say hash define image size is 512 times 512, so let's say image size myUART, okay where is our data starting here also it is starting from image data okay.

So image data of total transmitted byte I hope you remember what this was basically doing This delay was avoiding for avoiding data loss. So let's keep on microsecond and we have to use LIT.H It's already added. And we need to add the header file for UART So we have this one, XUART, yes My UART So that part looks fine While note done, while close test note got card, okay this is fine or you can write like this okay now the last thing left is disabling and enabling interrupt for this ISR that also we should do ideally okay so you can do it same way all you can use the functions available in the DMA controller driver also okay so here we are disabling the interrupt through the interrupt controller because we don't have any special register inside our IP to disable the interrupt. We have to directly do it through the interrupt control. But DMA, it has a register inside through which you can enable or disable interrupt, which we actually used at the beginning. If you remember, where this one, not this one, this one. So same way instead of enable we can have disable also and after that we can enable also. Again as mentioned before this we have to change to our core back reference.

OK, now in addition to disabling So, in addition to disabling we need to do one more thing. Again this is IP dependent. So some IPs ‒ most cases actually you have to. Again remember in our previous IP also we had to do it because interrupts they are usually coming from the status register so if you want to get interrupt next time you need to clear that status register otherwise it remains built-in function called interrupt act-knowledge, okay, so I think int act-function, yes this one and we need to call that function to acknowledge the interrupt, to clear the interrupt in the in the register. So again it takes the following parameters, instance pointer, mask, direction same Next step, so that's it.

Okay, so that said, so it covers many things that we have learned before in this single example. So we will now test it on hardware. Just go to run configuration, this one and stand-alone application and check these options and run it once So that the clock from PS starts to go to PL, but before you actually run we need to program the FPGA from VWORD. OK? So after that we come to application and enable this and run it. My board is powered off, that's why the error came so I'll power it on and program from VWARD. My board is powered on, let's configure Taratum, serial port 115200, new setting and log Let's call it blood.bmp and it will be a binary file so we need to remove any print

In-statement that will be coming, other than the error ones. So this, this, this are fine. Okay, we don't have any print other than error one. Fine, now go to Vivado and program the device. We have the debug core also so if you're interested you can see the signals also during runtime. OK, so let's try to run this. OK, run. And you can see actually the data is coming. The entire processing is over actually. OK? So all of these happen and he is sending back the processed data to my computer through UART which may take some time.

OK, so data transfer is finished. Two bytes are missing. No Big Deal. So let's check it. Okay, so remember we are sending only the only the image part okay we didn't send the header part so even if it is called a VMP image windows won't be able to open it because there is no header what we can do is we can just open it and take our Original banner, just copy paste the header part so that we can see the output first 438 hex okay only did this okay 437 and now it is the blur.bmp Okay, so it's exactly same as our simulation. You might also notice the same extra rows and two extra columns at the top and the right.

Okay, so I hope you got an idea about overall image filtering. So I'll have one more tutorial where we will have another kernel, may be the one for doing edge detection which may be more interesting than the blur operation. Okay, thank you.
