Hello all, in this tutorial let's do one more image processing. So we are trying to do something called edge detection which has a wide application in image processing as well as in other applications also. So there are many ways to do edge detection and one of the popular method is edge detection using Sobel operator. So if you haven't heard about it before you can and go ahead and read it in Wikipedia, they have a good article. So basically we are using two kernels here, so one kernel will look like this, one kernel will look like these, and if you look at the numbers, if you add them up, you'll get zero here as well as here.

So what is going to happen is in an image wherever you have an edge, okay? So there is a sudden change in the pixel intensity. So that's what we are going to use for doing this edge detection. So if there is no change in the intensity, that means there are no edges here and if you apply this kernel in those regions, you will see the pixel values are more or less same. So when you add and multiply them together, you will get either zero or a very small value in both cases. Suppose you have a vertical edge, that means if I'm talking about a grayscale.

Okay so let's look at Lener. Okay so here you can see this is a kind of edge because there is a sudden change from brighter pixel to darker pixel. So if you apply this kernel in that region what happens is on one side of that transition, On one side of that edge, you will have a large number and on the other side, you'll have a small number, positive or negative. So when you multiply and add the numbers, you will either get a big positive number or you will get a big negative number both are possible depending upon in which direction the transition is happening. So this kernel so it is mainly used for detecting The vertical edges, same way this kernel, same concept but this can detect horizontal edges

because when you have a transition in this direction, when you do multiplication and addition you will have a large number either positive or negative. So you'll find the edge in the X and Y direction and the overall magnitude of the resulting pixel is found using this formula because the numbers can be negative or positive. So you find the order magnitude using this equation and the gradient, the direction of the edge can be found using this formula. What we are interested is we just want to detect the edge and show the edges on the output image something like this.

So, usually we will apply it on grayscale images so it is easier to do it on gr So that's what we are going to do. So we already have this image processing IP This is the same project which we developed last time for doing the convolution and we found, we did the blurring operation using this convolution using this kernel or pixel. All kernel values equal to 1 Now I'm going to use the same file. I'm going modify the same file If you prefer you can start a new project and do it using the new project But I'm going to edit the same project itself.

Okay, so the interface remains the same and all other logic remains the same. That's the beauty if you follow hierarchical design. So that's why we always encourage hierarchical design. So the only file that you need to modify is the file which is doing the convolution. So as I mentioned before, we have two kernels here for horizontal and vertical. So I will be changing this kernel in the kernel 1 and kernel 2. I am keeping the width 7 down to 0. One thing you will notice here is the values in the core kernel, they are not always supposed to. There are negative values also. So that's one thing I wanted to show you if you have encountered this in mid-log before.

So we have kernel 1 and 2, these are the two kernels And now let's initialize the kernel values which will be some constant So I cannot use the for loop here because the values are not all same. So let's write it, so let's write... SoC, soC, soK, soK. SoK, so I am going to write the kernel for this GFX. So the values are 1, 0-1, 2, 0-2, plus 1, 0, minus 1. OK, so we'll say kernel 0 is 1. So we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. OK, so it is 1 0 0 minus 1. Then 2 0 minus 2 and again 1 0 minus 1, OK? So in Verilog you can directly assign these Vitis, Vitis, SoC, V OK, so we initialize both currents.

Now here we were doing the multiplication. OK, again one good thing about hardware. If you are using a single-thread processor to do this operation, you can do only one convolution at a time. You will have to first do this one, then you have to do this one and then you have do this one. Maybe in multi-processor, multi-center system maybe you can achieve some concurrency but in FPGA of course you can get concurrency, you can do both multiplication in parallel. Okay so for that here we did the multiplication and we stored the result in some variable called multData so here we are doing it in parallel so we will have multData1 MULT data 1 and MULT data 2.

Now the width of MULT data1 and MULT Data2 we need to find out. So we are going to do a signed multiplication, let's do it first then let's try to find out OK, so this we are going to call it MULT data 1, CAS, so this will be kernel 1, kernel i, sorry, times pixel i times h1. OK, so as I mentioned before the kernel values they can be positive or negative. OK, so you need to do something called a signed multiplication. By default, if you just write like this, Vivado will use a multiplier which is unsigned. So he will treat the entire number as the magnitude only. That means it's a positive number. So instead of taking it as minus 1, means 1111111, he will take it as 255 and do the multiplication and then you can write the code as a single

So that also has to say signed. Now, pixels they are posty numbers you know. Now the thing is if I just put signed here, if I have a pixel value 255 he will treat it as minus 1. So we need to convert it into some kind of posty number. That is easy to do. You just concatenate a one at the beginning and you concatenate 0 here, and if you treat it as assigned so this is assigned number. So this is treated as a post-enum. Make sense? Yeah, so dollar signed this thing times dollar signed kernel of I. Now we need to decide how many bits white should be our mult data 1. Okay, so usually if you are multiplying two 2n bit numbers, the result can be as big as 2n. But when you are doing signed multiplication,

one of the bits is signed so when you multiply two n bit numbers including signed bit, the result can be 2n-1. In our particular case we know the maximum negative number in kernel is minus 2. So to represent minus 2 maximum we need only 3 bits and this one it is now 8 plus 1, 9 bits. So, in total we will need 8 plus 3 plus 1. 8 plus 1 9 bits plus 3. So it seems like you will need 9 plus 3 12 bits but this is sign multiplication so one bit is for sign in the result also only one bit is representing sign so altogether you will need only 9 plus 3 minus 1, which is 11 bits for multata. So each multata value should be 11 bits. Change it to 10 down to 0 to represent that so multata1, multata2. Okay, so what multiplication we can do in parallel?

Second one is using kernel 1, second one is using Kernel 2, this is Multata1, this is multata2. So this is one advantage of hardware so he will be doing all these multiplication in parallel ok so there will be I is equal to 0 less than or not so there will 9 multipliers in parallel for this guy and there will be an iron multipliers in parallel for this guy. And we will have the result here which is 11. Okay, so MUL data is also done good enough. So this logic remains the same. Now the sum. This is also similar to what we did before. You will have to do this sum data int what should be the maximum value we need to do.

But either you can do theoretical calculation or we can look at some practical case. So, look at the kernel. So this is the kernel value. So in the worst case, what is possible is you have 255 at every point right here. You had 255 and here some 0 that will give the maximum value. So the maximum value that is going to come is 4 times 255, either plus 1020 or minus 1020. So for plus 2020 we need this many bits, so... So, we need at least one sign bit. So even 11 bits are enough. 4 plus 4 8 9 10 11 bits are to represent this is a negative number.

So positive also 1000 20 yeah 4 plus 4 eight nine ten you see that sign bit here it is 0, the previous case it is what representing that's the negative number so that's it. So you need only 11 bits for some also that will do so we can make this also 10 down to zero and you need to say you are doing a signed addition because these numbers can be also negative. OK, this is for multi data 1, some data int1, some data Int2, data int1. This is multi data 2. 1 2, 1 2, one 2, you need to initialize both. OK so we have finished multiplication and summation, now we need to assign it to this one so we can again have some data 1 and some data 2 same width, some data 1, and some data they can be also 11 bits.

So we finish multiplication and summation, now We need to find these square values for both. So that also we can do in parallel. You can either put a pipeline there also, or you can do it as a convolution circuit. Let's put a pipeline there also. So let's call something like, okay so we have the convolved data thing. Okay so let's say control data itself. One is square of some data one, so let's do some data one times some data one. Let's call it control data one, data int one and we have control data int two which is some data two times some data two. Okay so they are again and sign numbers, width is 11. So, control data int 1 and 2, there should be two times this

value minus one. So this is 22, so 20. And that's the minimum size required. Let's put the reg OLED, DATTA, IND, VALID, something like that. And we can say, IND VALID is sum data valid. So here also we need to set this is signed multiplication, signed of sum data 1 times Total Sign of some data 1 and here Total Sign from data 2 times total signed from data 2. The error is OK, it's an underscore. OK, so that is also done. Now the last step. OK, we are interested only in the Mac. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, If the value is something more than this, I'll make it white pixel, otherwise I will make it black pixel.

So in that way you can clearly see the edges in the result. Now what should be those values? Again, you can define it if we make a flexible IP with some registers inside maybe the processor can configure that threshold value there So if the pixel value is above the threshold value, my IP will make it white. Otherwise I will make it black. Okay so for here we can just define some value look at the output and if you feel like that's not good enough you can change it. Okay so one thing we missed we need to after finding the square we need to add it.

OK, so that maybe we can do as a compression circuit, not a big deal, plus this one. Now both the posty number remember because we found the square right? So let's call it Let's call this convert.int, we call this int1 int2, which is already declared, and width again theoretically should be one bit more than these two, so let's make it 21.0, doesn't matter even If you put 20, it will work because if I check the practical case these numbers won't be that big. Okay so that's assigned so we need wire and I can say like so I don't have to put valid here so he is finding the squares in parallel immediately it is going to an add a circuit and we'll get the output from there. So if control data in let's put some value say maybe

IP 1000, I will say my output pixel which is 8 bits only, final output is only 8 bit, I can say like it is 8 DCHFF which is a white pixel and I can say it is 0 which is a black pixel. Data, Convato Data, INVALID and that goes as the output. So there is no change in this value. Okay so that's it. So theoretically it should be working we can simulate and see there is no changing the test bench or anything everything exactly same We can just go ahead and simulate and see. Simulation is over. OK, so in the test bench the name of output is given blood-linear. So that doesn't change.

But this time, ok, so this is what we got. So you can see like the edges are highlighted but it seems like there are... So, we have some off-glaze here also. Some grains are here and there are some non-edges also. So what you can do is you can just increase the threshold value and try it again so that those off-glades they go away. So we can come here and instead of 1000 let's 4,000 something and rerun. OK, over and this is how it looks now. Now it looks much cleaner the edges are highlighted much better. Right? Ok so if you wish now you can go to the block design and add this IP and build the system and test it out hardware you will get the same output.

Now the one thing that is a headache for us is sending the image back from the board and seeing it on the computer through the UART interface which is not very efficient, it's not very practical also. So maybe what is more interesting is after processing the image we'll try to send it to a monitor, okay. We'll try to send it to a display, not to the computer, our standalone monitor and things would be better if you can directly see the output on the monitor. Now to do that, we need to start looking at video processing. How can you handle video on Zynq?

So from next tutorial that's what we are going to look at some video processing after that maybe we'll come back to image processing to do little bit more advanced stuff okay that's it thank you
