Now all, as I mentioned in the previous tutorial, now we are trying to interface our ZedBoard with an external display. So first we will be using the VGA interface of ZedBoard to achieve it. Now if you look at ZedBoard, it has two video interfaces. There is a VGA interface, VGA stands for Video Graphics Array which is an UNLOG interface actually and there is an HDMI High-definition multimedia interface. So VGI is a very old standard, it was initially developed for interfacing with CRT monitors so some of that signals we are still inheriting from that time.

HDMI is much more new standard, it's a digital standard and through HDMI you can send not only video, but audio signals also. So HDMI we'll be seeing later because it is much more complex and we will be actually discussing the VGA. Now even in YouTube there are a lot of videos which are clearly explaining what is VGA standard how signals are sent or VGA standard what are the signals in VGA standard etcetera so I'm not going into those details but for completion I'll be giving a brief introduction about this signaling.

So first thing we are looking at some of the terminologies when we discuss about video interfaces. So one thing that you will constantly hear is the resolution. So resolution is defined as the product of the width of your display times the height So, when we usually say resolution unlike patrices, we specify the width first then we specify the height instead of specifying height first followed by width. Okay so these are the old VGA standard resolutions. So, the most common VGA resolution is 640x480 that means you have 640 pixels in this direction and 480 pixels in this direction. Now later there are other VGA standards as you can see which have higher resolution. Now these are more popular resolution standards you'll be seeing

nowadays, these are mostly found in monitors which support other interfaces. They support maybe VGA also, but usually they will have support for HDMI, DVI or DP etc. other standard. Now VGA, the maximum resolution supported is this one 1080 by 920 so this resolution we usually call it 1080p okay? So when you hear 1080p this is the actual resolution 1080 pixel as height and 1920s width So same way this we call as 720p, this one we call as 480p. So this is Ultra HD standard where height is 21603840 is the width. Now there are higher resolution standards nowadays you might have heard about 2k resolution and 4k resolution in 2k and 4k the width is actually specified first instead of the height so they

So this is about resolution. So resolution basically tells you how many pixels are supported by your display. Now each pixel we usually have three values per pixel. So remember one pixel constitutes of RGB, three pixels internally, physically actually. Now next term that we usually hear is frame rate. So frame rate basically means number of frames per second. So when you are watching video as you know it's a series of images so the frame rate basically Vitis, how many images, how many frames are there per second and most commonly used frame rates are 50 Hz and 60 Hz. Now it is means you have 50 images coming back to back per second.

Now again there are reasons why these frequencies are there. There are some biological reasons because the frequency should be at least some certain value so that because of persistence of Mission, we feel the continuous motion. Now if you have very high frequency there not may not be any real advantage because So, so this is the first of our limitations of our eyes and brains. If it is too high, it won't make much difference. We won't feel any difference if our eyes are the ultimate consumer of these videos. So usual standards are 50 and 60 Hz.

So if you're looking at 1080p, so remember 1080p is 1920 by 1080 pixels resolution and if it is running at 60 Hz and if you have tri-color display RGB each with 1 byte. So the raw throughput that you are looking at when you are transmitting a video to your monitor is around 373 megabytes per second. Data is going at that rate. Anyway, this is not a very high speed if you compare with our modern interfaces, but it's relatively high value. Now the next question is as you know when you take any computer monitor and if you immediately plug it into your cabinet, the picture comes properly right?

How does it happen? Because it is possible when you are suddenly plugging in the image transmitted by the CPU maybe halfway the image. But you will never see like your image is starting from half way or half of the image is coming from the top of the display. So that is achieved through synchronization, so there are special signals sent by the video source which helps multiple lines, right? So when you have 1080 here that means there are 1080 horizontal lines. So this synchronization enables the display to determine where a line starts and where a line ends. So these are our synchronizations. So this is a timing diagram when you are using VGA interface so as I mentioned before this is an analog system so you will have continuous signal

going and we usually have three separate lines for RGB values so depending upon again how many bytes you are using if you are using one byte so each RGB can take values between 0 to 255 but on ZedBoard we are going to use four bits per color channel so you will have values between 0-15 going for each RGB. So you So you have three such lines going in parallel. In addition to that, you have a separate signal for horizontal synchronization and a separate signal for vertical synchronization. So this picture is showing like one vertical synchronization happens after a lot of horizontal synchronization.

So this signal comes one per line. So if we are using 1080p, one vertical synchronization and that happens after 1080 horizontal synchronisation. Makes sense? And you may have noticed here there are strict timing parameters given what is the length for this part, what is the line for this part etcetera we have very strict timing parameter so when we say horizontal synchronisation even here you can see this is the synchronisation pulse, actual pulse and we need some time period before that signal which is called as a front porch, we need sometime after that synchronization which is called the back porch.

Again all these requirements initially came from the CRT era but we are still carrying over those specification similarly for vertical synchronization also you have this front porch part and the back porch part okay so there are strict timing requirement, how long each of these signals should be. So to synchronize this timing we need a very precise clock signal and we call that a pixel clock so every rising edge of the pixel clock will be sending one pixel from the video source but if you look at VGS standard the clock is not sent to the Monitor. We are sending only the media signal and the synchronisation signal, the clock is not sent

because there's a historic reason for that again as I mentioned before this was used for CRT monitors initially which is a pure analog implementation so their clock was not required Vocabulary, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, XSCT, Zynq, ILA-SPF, ILA‐SPF, Sync, and that's what you have 1080. In addition to that these are the timing requirement for the vertical synchronization so total you have 1125 lights per frame out of that 1080 is the real one and remaining half for synchronization so if I look at one frame there are 1125 times 2200 that many pixel duration and if I am running at 60 Hz, I will have total 1125 x 2200 x 60 which is 148.5 MHz so my pixel clock should be 148.5 megahertz. I should be

sending video at this frequency so this we need to keep in mind. Okay so this is This is the actual VGA interface from the ZedBoard schematic I just wanted to show you because as we mentioned before FPGAs they are pure digital circuit, worst part let me review it because nowadays there are some analog parts also. So how are we generating this analog VGA signal, the video signal from digital? This is achieved through register ladders. So you can see he's using 4 bits for each color component, RGB and here we have horizontal and vertical synchronization signals.

And these are connected to a kind of register ladder. So if you look at the register ladder you can see the register values are like 5 times 1k, 2k, 4k right? You can see like it's keep on incrementing and if you apply the superposition principle, you will see the final voltage here will be like a weight sum of this bits. So this will be LSPIT and this will be MSBIT so this has the highest resistance value, this has the lowest resistance value, the MSBIT. So if you do a superposition, at this point it will be a weight sum of this.

And if you look at the resistor values they are like going in 2's power. So it would be like converting a binary number to decimal. Thats the effect which is going to come here. Thats how we are achieving this digital to unlock conversion. So we are going to use IP core from Xilinx to generate this video signal that is called an Xilinx AXI4-Stream video out, again you will find it in the Xilinx IP core directory. So what this IP does is he will combine the incoming video signal and the synchronization signals together and he will send it out to our display.

So on the left you can see there is a AXIStream slave interface, so we need to provide the video signal here, ok. So, this is the first example of how to use the T-LAST and User Signals also. Now how these signals should be used? So this T-user is mapped to another signal, this is I have taken from the data sheet. So the T-user same as SOF signal here which stands for Start of Frame, T-Last is same as EOL signal here, End of Line signal here. When you are giving a video signal, what you should do is when you send the first pixel of the frame, this SOF signal should remain high for one clock.

That is why it is called start-off frame. Now after that each time you finish sending a line. So remember this is start-off frames but this one each time you send a line you need to make this signal high for one o'clock end of line. So if you are using 1080p, after sending every line, you need to make this signal high. Okay? But only after sending 1080 lines, you need to make this SOF signal high. So that's what we are going to do. Okay? Now along with that as I mentioned, this IP he needs information about horizontal sync, vertical sync.

Those signals are given by another IP called Video Timing Controller. So it's very simple to use this IP, you just have to specify what resolution you need and you need to give that pixel clock which we just calculated. You will automatically give this Hsing-Vsing signals to our stream IP. So he will come back all those things and he will send out. So here is the video data coming out. Again, you will notice it's 24-bit, 8-bits per color channel, but practically here it's only 4-bits so we'll be taking the lower 4-bits out of this 8-bits and we'll be sending out. This much is the background information. Now we will go ahead and start the system design. So I'm starting a new project, let's call it VGA interface,

because I am directly starting a block design, let's called it VGA system. So in this first project my aim is a very simple design we just want to display some kind of test pattern on our monitor just to make sure our IP cores are working and we understand how they work OK, so that's why I'm directly starting a block design. So as I mentioned before we are aiming for a 1080 VGA interface. So the clock frequency is 148.5 megahertz and for this design I am purely depending upon the PL part. I'm not involving the processor in this design because I just wanted to test my IP OK, so again if you remember Zynq on ZedBoard it is getting a clock signal from the Y9 pin

which is 100 megahertz. So we need to somehow convert this 100 megaherz into 148.5 that is done with the help of some internal circuitry. You can either use a PLL or you can use an MMCM, Mixmod clock manager. So either way you need to choose a clock wizard from here. So whenever you need to generate clock or you need to modify the frequency in PL this is the best way. Okay so this IP, so let's double click it, so OK, so talking option, MMCM you can choose either of them, PLLs they make you a better performance in terms of jitter but So, you just have to give what is the frequency of your input clock.

It's written 100 MHz and that is the case. Obviously it's 100 MHz so keep it as such. Now let's go to output clock. We need 148.5. Okay, so that is the requested clock frequency and IP is saying he can actually generate 148.5 from 100 MHz clock. OK, so that looks good and 50% is the duty cycle. So this guy there is a reset signal which is used for resetting it. Now the clock generator when you give the clock initially the output clock will not immediately come because there are some internal circuitry which has to do some locking mechanism, some phase synchronization.

So it will take some time for the clock out to come out at the beginning But once the clock out comes up, it will continuously come. Okay? So this lock signal is basically saying whether the output clock is locked to the input clock and whether the output frequency is stable or not. Okay so for simplicity I can remove these ports actually reset and clock And we just have our clock in here and we just have the clock out here. If 800 megahertz here, here we get 148.5 megahertz. OK, now there's a connection automation and you can connect clock into system clock.

OK, since he knows like this is ZedBoard, this will be automatically connected to the Y9 pin even if you don't do a pin constraint but later we will do it. OK so we have the clock here. Now let's bring our IP that we discussed, XS4-Stream to video, XS 4-Stream Video out. Similarly there is an IP called Video into XS4 that you can use when you are interfacing some camera. Maybe later we will do it. Okay so this is the IP. So we need to give the clock signal, we need to keep the reset signal and we need to give the clock enable signal things like that. Okay so let's keep it here along with that let's also bring the timing controller so video timing controller okay so this is the other IP which is generating synchronization signals okay

So let's go ahead and double click this timing controller. And there is an Xilite interface, if you want to change some parameters at runtime from the processor, you're not planning to use a processor so you can just unclick it. And this is the maximum clocks per line. This basically decides the maximum resolution that will be supported. 1080p, 1080p, this is more than that, so it's perfectly fine. And this IP can generate synchronization signals as well as it can detect. So in our case we just want to generate the signal so you can again unclick the enable detection option.

Now here you have to specify the resolution okay so we are planning for 1080, so already a lot of resolutions are predefined. If you choose 1080 he will automatically fill these values like 1920 that is the horizontal and 1080 that's the vertical and the other parameters like your front porch, back porch, sync width etc. He fills everything automatically. Now if you have We have a very custom resolution that's also possible, your own resolution provided you have a monitor which supports that kind of resolution and you can choose custom and you can specify all those parameters.

So we are keeping 1080 itself, that is a standard resolution and that's it. So you need to do these many configurations and just say OK. So that's done. So this is where the synchronization output comes, you can see H-Sync, V-Sync. These are two interesting things for us. There are other signals also, horizontal blank, vertical blank, things like that. So these signals we have to give to the V timing in of this IP because he's also taking the same signals. OK, looks fine, and there is a connection automation coming now for connecting the clock So we can connect this output clock to all of them. We will do it. You can use automation.

Okay, so same clock. It got connected to this one. He also instantiated an IP for generating a synchronized reset signal. So this clock is going here and he will generate a reset signal, which is synchronous to this signal and that is applied here. Now this IP core, again remember when you are using the PS part also, this signal, this IP is automatically included and the reset which will be used by this IP is provided by the processor. Again this time I'm not trying to use the processor so this research should be coming from external world okay so we have this EXT So this is the active reset and it should be an active low reset and he's saying like okay you can connect it outside. Okay so he connected let me just rename it instead of

reset underscore RT let's just call it reset. Okay so that should come from external world we may connect to one of the slides which is in order to provide some reason, so this is active reset, active low reset. So same way we need to and that FIFO, then he will take the synchronization signals from here. Then he will read from that FIFO and combine it using this synchronization signal and he will send it out. Now if you are working in asynchronous mode there will be more resource utilization because he has to do or clock synchronization things like that.

So what we'll do? We will run at complete synchronous mode that means this IP will also run at same frequency 148.5 okay. So he should run at least at 148.5, you can make it run above 148.5 it will still work, the internal FIFO will take care of everything. So there is a reset signal here also so let's connect that signal also here. Okay now there is an output from this IP, VTGC stands for Video Timing Generator Clock Enable. So that signal you need to connect here, gen clock enabled because this IP he may want to sometimes stop this timing controller.

He may wants to sometime start this timing controller those things are achieved through the signal. Okay so this signal he will assert low if we want to stop him to generate synchronization signals only if the signal is high this guy will be giving out the synchronization signals So during simulation we will see like why that is important. Now there are some clock-enabled signals here, VDO, input output control-enabled signal here. So although there are bubbles at the beginning of these signals, they are all active high signal.

OK so if you keep them low none of these IPs will work. You should keep them high. OK, even if you keep them unconnected I guess it will work but it will be a good idea to constantly drive high on the signal so I'm going and use the constant IP which will give me a constant value let's make that constant as one yeah it So we will go ahead and connect that here, this clock enable here and here. Okay so that's also done now here is the signals coming out fine. So we have H-Sync and V-Sync horizontal and vertical sync that we have to connect externally Because that should go to the external conductor, so make external and make external.

Okay? So they are going out. Now these signals It's a 24-bit signal, 23 down to 0. But remember I have already shown you on ZedBoard the VGA it is only 4 bits. So out of this 24, 8 is for R, 8 is G, 8 is B. The problem if you just make it external all these 24 will be made external signal that So that means you have to give pin constraint for all 24 bits, but we have pin constraint only for 12 bits. So instead of doing it like that what we'll have to do is we have to separate 4-4-4 from this 8-8-8 and only connect them externally.

So that's what I'm going to do next. So if you have a large bus, and if you want to take a portion of that bus, we have an IP core for that it is called the slice IP. So last time I have shown you the concat IP which is used for combining signals and make a bigger bus. And this slice IP is used for breaking a bigger bus into smaller buses. Again, internally these IPs don't have any logic. It's just combining wires or breaking wires into multiple pieces. So I will go ahead and bring this live IP. So here you can specify what is the width of the input. We are getting 24 wide input. Out of that I am choosing the lower four bits.

IP, P, sound to 0. That is the lower 4 bits. So in this IP, the lower 8 they are representing R then G and then B, RGB. And among these lower eight only four are connected externally. Okay? So I will connect it here, and now I will make this extra. So let's just rename it, let's call it VGA underscore R so we can easily identify it. The same way we need to do it for D and B also. Let's make copy pasted and make external, and this is G, and this from 11 down to 8. The four log bits of next byte and different copy paste again. This is MPAB.

IP, you can rename the pins like this and you can even rename your IP instance names also if you wish. This one is 19 round to 60 again 4 bits so that part is also done. Now the only thing that is remaining is basically giving the video signal. So this is where we have to apply the video signal. So as I mentioned before here you will give the video data, along with that you need to give valid as well as this user as well as the last signal which are representing start-of-frame, SOF and end of line EOL signals. Now in the IP core there is a IP called Video S generator, I think, Video SPAPN generator. This IP if you include it, this one, so this IP is actually generated from Vivado HLS that's what it is showing. It is written in HLS.

So, we have to write another state machine kind of thing which can control this IP because it has a ‐ you can see this is AXI4 interface. So there should be some other master who is actually controlling this pattern generator. So what we will do is we will generate our own more IP which can generate that vertical Color Pattern on our monitor to test our IP. So that we will do in the next tutorial. In this tutorial, we have completed everything except connecting the video source here, the IP which generates some video signal. So that will be doing next tutorial. Thank you.
