Hello all welcome back. So in the last tutorial we have completed our block design for interfacing video with the VGA interface of ZedBoard. As I mentioned before only thing that is left is giving the video input so we are going to make a module which will generate some video signals which we will transmit over the VGA Interface. Now ideally, that module you may have to design as a separate IP maybe in a separate project and add it here but I wanted to show one more feature of Vivado so in order to show that I'm starting my module design in Verilog in the same project itself okay where I already have the block design. So I'm starting a new Verilog source let's call it datagen.v this module is going to generate some data

So, first we have to make the interface. So, we have the clock 148.5 MHz clock, we have reset signal, now output, okay, we need to connect it here. So, we had a standard AXI interface in addition to that we have two additional signals, the Start-off Frame, SOF signal and End-of Line signal. Okay so let's say output 7 down to 0, 4 data we have, output 4 data valid we have, input i.data already we have, in addition to that we have OST, OFRAME, OEND-of-Lite, SoC, that's the interface. Now we need to generate this signal so the easiest way is to write a small state machine. Always set for the child clock. If we are in reset you will go to idle state. Remember this is ACVI reset So it should be active low signal.

So, begin and let's say state, I will state. Yeah, so the data should be transmitted. So as for protocol when you start the first frame, You need to make the SOF, Start of Frame Signal High. Okay, so let's make Start of Frame signal high along with that First pixel of data should be also sent. Okay, along with that I'm going to make all data valid high So the actual data we will generate it separately after this. Okay so we are making these two signals high and we will go to the next state let's call it send data state. Okay then now we need to follow SoC, low, but data valid I am keeping it high because now we are starting to send data and we are planning to send one entire line of data. Okay? Now to check

whether we have finished sending one entire line of data we need some kind of counter so let me call it something like line pixel So this counter will count how much pixels I have transmitted for this particular line. So, we are not worried about the resource replacement. We can directly declare a 32-bit Xilconter, so initially it was 0. So each time he says he is ready, that means data validity is already high. Data already high means a successful data transmission happen. Okay, so I will increment this pixel counter. So now on every clock I am transmitting a new data and I'm incrementing my counter only if that data is accepted by the video converter.

So this keeps on happening until I finish sending one entire line and when I finish sending an entire line along with the last pixel, I need to make end of line signal high. Okay so, so I need to compare if my Xil counter with some value indicates like I have finished it. So that we need to declare. Okay we'll declare it let's call it line size or something. Line size minus 2. That means we are transmitting the second last pixel on this clock. So along with that, we need to make end of line signal high and on the next clock we have to make it low. Okay so we'll make all end of line 1v1 we are making and we go to the next state and let's call it something like end line because we need to make sure this

EOL is also seen by the video converter for one clock cycle. Cap again and so this we will declare, rectify line size we are using 90p So one line size is 1920. So we made the signal high and in the next state, the inline state, again we need to check whether he accepted it. So if I data ready, I can make the signal back to zero and I can reinitialize my pixel counter also. OK, so everything looks fine. Now we need some way to decide whether I finish sending one entire frame or not. For that we will have to use another account. OK? So based on that I will have to go back to idle state and again make this SR signal high. If I haven't finished one entire frame, I just finished some line in between, I will have go back to send data state and again start sending the next slide. So to distinguish between this, I will need some kind of counter. So let's call it data counter. Again let me declare it as integer data counter. Again we can initialize it 0 when reset comes. And whenever we send a valid data, we'll increment it. So here we are sending valid data here, because already it's high. We are incrementing it. So here also there is a valid data transmission. So here also we are incrementing by one. Now we need to check whether I am sending the last data or not. So for that I will compare if my data counter is same as my frame size.

Okay, so let's define our frame size. So tick define, let's say, okay, frame size is 19, 20 times NID. So when we are sending the last pixel, so frame size minus one, we will check. Means on this clock I am sending the last picture. If they are matching, that means I will go back to the state. I will make my data valid signal 0 also. Because I'm going back to idle state and I will start a new SOF. And start transmission from there. 1, 0. And I can also re-initialize this to 0. You can do either here or you can do it in the idle state also.

Okay, both are fine. Else! That means I finished sending a line but that is not the end of the frame. Just go back to... Send data state and continue sending. Next slide. Okay, so that's it. Now we have to declare everything. So state, we have v-state, so it should be 2 bits, red 1,0 state, we Local Param, IDLE, PCRO, We have some data, let's say, E1, and intline, let's see, E3. And in the line, SOF, they are all inside always flop so we make them register. Okay, so that part is also that, all data valid also. There should be all drive So this also we need to initialize under reset All the control signals, output control signals should be initialized in reset so it's also type of frame and end of line

Okay, so that's it. Now the only thing that is left is assigning the actual data So my plan is to create some vertical color bars on the screen. You might have seen that it's a standard video testing pattern. Now I'm not planning to have like seven or eight vertical lines which you usually see we just want to test the minimum functionality so I am planning to have three vertical lines let's say one red, 1 by 3rd of my screen should be red, 1 by 3 green and 1 by 3 blue. So for that what can I do? So we have the data here or data. Okay so I made a mistake this is one byte but we have three of them so it should be 23 down to 0. 24 bit data. So out of these 24 bits the lower

8-bit represent R, then G, then B. So when I'm sending a line data for 1 by 3rd of the line data, I'll make only the R signal high, blue and green I will keep it low. For next one by third, I will make G high other two low and next one by third I'll make B high and remaining low. Okay so that's very straightforward because we already have a counter which counts like How many pixels of this vertical line has been sent. So I can take advantage of it and I can just use that to create this output. Ok, so I am just writing it as a combination circuit. So I will say like if line pixel counter If it is between 0 and 1 by 3rd, okay. So remember our width is 1920 so we have 1920 by 640.

Okay so if this counter is between 0 0, 630 in IAM, 640, I'll make my OData like this, 24, 1 by 2 by 3, that means my R value FIFO, maximum, EZURO, EZUURO, same style, we can do it, I'll see if it is Between 640 and 1280 we will make G-High of 0.0, else final case we will make Blue as high. So although here we are using 1 byte for each color component finally only the lower 4 bits XSCT will be coming out of the board because each color component which has only 4 bits on VGA, on ZedBoard. Okay so we need to make this also as a H type and that's it.

So that completes the design no syntax errors. Okay well the interesting part now I want to use this module in my blog design so as I I can simply drag and drop this module here So this is all data, we will connect to this video T data, data valid to the valid here and they are ready to hear. Start of frame is configured as T user you have to look at the datasheet and end of line is configured as T last. Now the reset we can connect. Let's check whether any arrays are there. So let's do one thing, let's go ahead and simulate the design you can simulate this entire design because there is no processor involved if the PS part is involved, you won't be able to simulate the processor part because I guess

till this point Xilinx they haven't provided the complete bus functional model for the PS part. But since here there is no processor, you can completely simulate it. The only input expected from you are this clock which is 100 MHz and this reset which is active now and you can see whether these output video signals are coming. OK, so let's go ahead and create HDL wrapper. OK. And after that we can simulate. Settings and simulation top module name. OK. We need to change. We need to give the top module name here. OK. You'll see like this data gen it is not in the hierarchy till now, but once he generates the output products it will automatically go inside your system.

Okay so run simulation, run behavioral simulation. It may take some time because we have many IP cores and he has to generate the simulation model for each of them and even the simulation will be slightly slower because of the presence of many IP cores. Okay, he has completed the compilation and let's add signals to the waveform. So these are our top level signals but let's also see how signals are going into the IV core and also we can just expand let's see our clock gen circuit okay whether he is giving Open 148 MHz, so this is our option and this is our data generator, this is our timing control generator, this our XSIFO-Stream video.

OK, so we have added all of them. Now let's restart simulation. So let's apply the interlock, system lock, system reset, 0, 100 MHz, and reset. We need to keep reset low and let's run for like 1000 nanosecond with reset. And if you look at the option here, you can see the output clock is not present. So ideally, other modules they should be kept under reset as long as the output from the clock gen is not stable. So for that we could have used a locked signal coming out of the clock gen. That is a good practice you need to combine this external reset with that lock signal to generate some internal reset which should go through all the peripherals.

We haven't done it so let's do one thing. We need to keep everything under reset until the clock out becomes stable. And here you can see it, so there was no clock signal. Initially there were some pulses you can see but then it became low and from this point he locked. So he will constantly give 148.5 MHz from this point onwards. Okay so once every module starts to get locked we will apply the reset. So you can see it took approximately 3.4 microsecond for the clock to stabilize, so when we use it on actual hardware this is a very small duration, so we will keep the reset button pressed for one second or something to make sure clock is safe.

Okay, so after that we can make reset high and we can run the simulation continuously. So, continuously now it will take a long time for the output to stabilize you will see so you'll have to run maybe like 100 nanoseconds, sorry 100 milliseconds see some proper output it may take a long but you can see like our data generator he is generating data you can So we can see it, he made the SOF signal high here, you can see, we made the Sof and valid high here but the ready signal is low on the next clock. So that's why we kept on asserting it until he became ready.

So from now this point onwards data transfer is properly happening. So here is our first line, we finish, here we finished second line so on and so forth. But if you look at the output, there is no data. There is no synchronization signal because the XC video out module it will take some time to internally synchronize. So, these are the nice things because the video interface and the timing generation interface, these are two separate interfaces. So this guy he has some internal state machine it has to find some synchronization before he starts giving out the actual data.

So here there is a signal locked here on the block design also you can see the signal we didn't use it so this signal will become high once he locks between the timing control signal and the video signals that we are providing. After that he will start to give the final output, you should be able to see the RGB output coming here as well as H-Sync and V-Sync. So let's wait. You can see like after some 110 millisecond now the output is coming okay you can see the first vertical sync is coming here, then there are lot of horizontal syncs here and you can see the RGB values are going like F, RGB only one of them is F other two are 0 right so it's working like that.

And if you come to the video IP you can see the locked signal that is coming around at OK, you set your light with this, say, 1090 but only 1089 pixels are coming. So in that case there will be some error things like that. Similarly, there are underflow or flow signals here. These are coming from the internal flip-flops. So if your incoming video frequency is less than the pixel clock frequency, The underflow may become high if that frequency is small or flow will become high. So, that is applicable only when you're working asynchronously.

That means your video signal clock is different from the timing control clock. Okay? So otherwise it is working. Now we can synthesize, implement it and test it on hardware But the only issue that I faced was, anyway as per VGA standard, when you have horizontal or vertical synchronization all the output data, all the RGB channel values should be zero. But here that is not coming like that. Okay logically I don't think that is necessary also because this is basically saying there is a sync pulse, so the video is not valid. But when I tested on real monitor it was not working.

Okay? So what you need to do is whenever there is any synchronous signal coming, synchronization signals coming these values should be made to zero that our IP is not automatically doing. So in our block design what you need to do is we need to put some kind of multiplexer here whose output will be zero whenever there is no valid signal or whenever the synchronization is happening otherwise he should send signals as output. So the easiest way to do that is there is a signal coming from here, video active video. So this signal will become high whenever there is a valid video data here otherwise it will remain low.

So using that we can build some kind of multiplexer which will choose between zero or this signal based on this control signal. So let me same way I made the data generator, this is a small multiplexer, so let me create it here itself, MUX.V, let's call it, and its input is 24 bit, output is also 24 bit, let's make it like that, so we have, so input 23 down to 0, i data, let's have input i control, and we have output, output 23 down to zero ILA, ILA, We will just save the design and configure this as the top module, our system wrapper.

And we will now you can see like everything went inside right your data generator and multiplexer C came here and data generator came here he found the hierarchy automatically so we'll We will just go ahead and run synthesis first. After that we have to do pin constrain for these signals. After that, we can generate the bit-string. Synthesis is completed now. We can do the pin assignment. So the clock signal he has automatically assigned to Y19. So the reset signal since we need an active load I am not connecting to any push button.

Connecting it to the first slide switch, the deep switch which is F22 and now you have to give the points for RGB So those things we can find from the datasheet And in the datasheet it is written from lower bit to higher bit Ok so this is red 0, this is red 1, this is 2 and 3 So remember to use that order when you're doing pin assignment. Similarly for H-Sync and V-Sync, these are the pin assignments. So let's do it. So I have finished the pin assignments, I have saved all of them in an XTC file, video system.XTC. Now keep the IELTS standard as LVCMOS thread 33 because all these pins are connected to the bank or pins of the FPGA where the reference voltage is 3.3V, okay?

So change all of them to 3.3. Let's save that also. Now the only thing left is giving the clock frequency. Now if you go to Edit Timing Constraint, you will find like he automatically detected. The clock frequency is 100 MHz because we did connection automation so he automatically VIT stream, VIT stream is connected to Y9 and Vivado knows like on ZedBoard that clock is 100 mAhts so you don't have to give separate clock constraint. You can go ahead and generate VIT stream now after that we can test it on hardware. VIT stream generation is completed now let's go ahead and program the FPGA. So make sure your FPGA is

So this is the output on the monitor, so you can see as we decide 1 by 3rd of the monitor is red, then 1 by 3 green and 1 by 3 is blue. My laptop camera is not that great, that's why the green is not very clear. Now remember one thing, we configured this slide switch as our reason, so if I make the switch, camera is not that great, that's why the green is not very clear. Now remember one thing, we configured this slide switch as our research so if I make the slide switch So, I will go to the switch to zero. My system will go to reset state. That's why the monitor will be black. So you need to keep the switch at all position to disable the reset.

And depending upon your laptop ‐‐ I think it's not clear ‐‐ you can go to the information and you'll see like he automatically detects the resolution as well as the frequency. It is 1920 bar tally date, vertical frequency 60.1. Okay? So that's about this tutorial. Thank you.
