Hello all, in the last tutorial we have seen how to use Xilinx AXI4-Stream interface IP. And we generated some dummy data using a data generator and displayed it on our monitor. But practically you know the image will be coming from some other sources maybe from camera. For example when we are doing image processing we need to send some image to the display and the image may be initially stored in external DMA memory. Now, in this tutorial we are going to see how this can be achieved through the Xilinx video DMA IP core.

So the main aim is to transfer data from external DMA to the AXI4-Stream IP. Now similar to our image processing when you want to do any video processing One entire video frame cannot be usually stored inside the FPGA because of the limited memory available inside the FPGA. So initially these video frames are stored in external memory such as the external DDR memory and the part of the DDR memory which is used for storing one frame is called a frame buffer. Now similar to our image processing, for better performance you can You can have one or more video buffers inside your external memory while you are transferring one frame from memory to the display.

You can store the data in the other frame buffer if you're using two frame buffers. So, in some kind of ping pong fashion, you can have better performance. So usually again, the more number of frames you have, better will be performance to some certain level, after that you might not experience any improvement in performance. Now the special IP which is going to help us to stream data from this external memory to our AXI4 stream video IP is called the VDMA or VDODMAIP. So this is the system architecture we So we already have this XE4-2 video stream IP and our video buffer, video data is sitting here.

So this VDMA he'll be taking data from here and he will be streaming it to our XE4 2 video stream IP. Now there are many advantages of using video DMA. So this is again a DMA controller, I guess Xilinx has taken the AXI DMA controller and they have put a wrapper around it with some extra features So one of the main features is it has an interface which is directly compatible with the AXI4-Stream IP So the start of frame, end of line, those signals are directly generated by this IP core so you can directly interface them If we're using our traditional AXI DMA controller We don't have that signal, okay?

So that is one major advantage Now another advantage is this can work in some kind of loop mode means once you configure the DMA controller from the processor saying What is the starting address of the frame buffer, what is the size of the frame He will continuously read from memory and continuously transfer it to the IP You don't have to restart the transmission after each DMA operation So that is another major advantage And this IP core gives an interrupt signal And the interrupt is generated whenever one frame is completely transmitted OK, so it's not like you have three frame buffers and you configure him to transfer three frame buffer and he will give interrupt after transmitting all three.

He is going to give an interrupt after transmitting each frame So that means again similar to our image processing where we got an interrupt after finishing one line buffer similarly when you get an interrupt After 1 frame buffer, you can reuse that frame buffer to fill new data. So let's say again another major advantage. OK, so we'll directly go to system design and start our design. So I'm starting from where we left last time. So in the last tutorial, we already used this stream-to-video out IP and the data was generated by this RTL code. Okay, so this time instead of this it should come from external DDSIM I'm just going ahead and deleting this IP from my design and I'm going to add the processing system because

So, so this is the DDA you can access only through PS. Right? So let's add processing system and block automation. Okay. Now first thing, so last time maybe you remember we are using 1080p resolution for that we need 148.5 MHz clock, so that's why we use this clock generator who was getting 100 MHz from external world and he is converting it into 148.5. Now since we have the processing system it is better everyone works synchronously using the same clock source, so this guy has a clock output this FCLK clock 0 and by default it is 100 MHz.

Now you cannot directly make it to 148 MHz, so if I go here and if I just try to change and then change it to 148.5, he's saying like you requested 148.5 but actually he can give only 142.85 so that's because of how PLLs and MMCM work so if time permits I will explain it later So, the output is divided by some particular value. So the source clock he's already using for generating clock for the processor, DDR etc. So the multiplication and division values are somehow fixed. Now he couldn't find a dividing factor which can generate this particular frequency.

So what we will do is, we'll keep it 100 and that clock we will give to this clock wizard instead of taking it from external world and 100 148.5 MHz like this, this you can do okay so now it is 100 and the output is 148 similarly reset it was coming from external world now You don't want that, you already have the reset signal here and I can connect that reset. Okay so that's another advantage. Now remember last time I mentioned when you have a clock wizard the stable clock comes only after some duration and we are supposed to keep all the logic in our system under reset until this clock becomes stable.

Last time what I did was, I was asserting the result for long enough to make sure this clock is stable. It takes very few milliseconds but still we want to do a proper design so what we'll do is this clock wizard it has a locked port if you remember this one so this signal goes high IP, only when the output clock is stable. So he has locked, the phase has been locked and our reset IP here you will see there's an option DCM locked so this I can give here so this IP he will make sure this output reset remains asserted until this lock signal become high, this is an active high signal.

OK, so that also we did. Now let's go ahead and bring our VDMA IP, VDODMA, OK, so it looks similar to our AXI-DMA IP. I think in interfaces there is no difference at all actually. That exactly looks same other than these two additional output which we are not going to use. So we need to customize it, so just double Addresware, it is fine, Framebuffer, okay so this is what I mentioned. So he's basically asking in the external memory how many frame buffers you will have. So as a beginning we can just keep one frame buffer we just want to test it and this one is read and write channel. So you enable write channel if you want to accept video signal from somewhere else and you want to write it to the memory

and Re-channel if you want to read from me. Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, XSct, SD card, XSect, SD card. and every clock we want to transfer one pixel, 8 bit per color component of pixel. Okay so every clock we wanted to transfer one pixel, so the stream width to our XSCT4-Video stream IP is only 24 bits so keep it 24. Line buffer depth, so what he does is he reads data from DERIA, he temporarily stores it in a FIFO and from the FIFO it goes to the video IP. So this line buffer has nothing Inter-Transer because similar to our previous DMA IP, the rule is when you do memory allocation in DDR if you choose it 24 bit the starting address of the video frame should be aligned to 3 bytes because this is 3 bytes.

So that you cannot always guarantee, that's why you check this option so that he doesn't care what is the starting address it will always work. Okay, so that's it and choose okay. Okay now the IP looks like this, so you can see it here. This is the stream interface and this is our 24-bit and we already have TUser, TLast which SoC, ILA, ILA and EOL, ILA. And you will be able to directly connect it to our IP. Now the resolution and all, you didn't configure it here that is done through software. So even at runtime, you have the flexibility to change the resolution.

This is quite versatile, DMA controller but it's done through software Okay so that said now the light interface. That is controlled by the processor. So we are going to configure the DMA controller, like where is the starting address of the buffer, what is the resolution all these things through the light interface. So this has to be connected to the GV port of PS so we can run connection automation and he's saying like okay, AXI-Lite can be connected to The processor, OK, so that light one gave it to an interconnect and from the interconnect it has been connected here.

And the clock is also connected here. And this clock, so there is the clock for a light interface, this is for the stream interface, this is for memory read interface, this interface. So that interface you can again like our previous DMA, you can connect it to either the HP port or the ACP port. So let's enable an HP port so that VDMA can access the DDR through that. Okay, so let's go to HP port and let's enable port 0. OK, now let's run the connection automation and he connects it. MM2S, it will go to a smart interconnect and from there it will get connected to the HP port and all the clocks are connected together.

So this input and this output you don't care about it at least in this application because They are important only when you are reading and writing from DDR, so that you make sure You don't read and... So, we will try it from the same buffer using the VMA controller. So there are some techniques for that and this frame pointer is used for that. So don't worry. Now interrupt we need as I mentioned before after transmitting each frame he will give an interrupt so based on that interrupt we can decide like what to do.

OK, so that we need. So let's go to interrupt and fabric and enable the interrupt. So this interrupt we can connect here. OK now you will see like he instantiated one more processor reset IP and that is taking clock from here. OK, so this part we need to modify. This happened due to our connection automation. We want everyone to run at 148 MHz for complete synchronous operation. So I'm disconnecting this clock, I can say disconnect pin here also disconnect pin and I am going to connect these clocks also to the output here.

This clock is also output, okay? So the only and all these signals they got connected to this 100 megahertz so I guess that's my mistake when I set connection automation I didn't check where he was actually connecting. So what we can All we can do is, we can say disconnect this pin and we can disconnect this pin also and we can do like this. So this one goes here and this clock out you need to connect to all other clocks. Now everyone is getting clock from this clock wizard every clock looks fine. The reset of CAD, you can take every reset from here also, so I can remove this IP.

We have interconnect resets and peripheral reset, so interconnect reset we can give to this one, interconnect reset, So we have that interconnect and everyone else they get the peripheral reset. So we have reset here Okay, so these resets should be also connected to the peripheral reset Okay, so now everyone is getting reset from here And we have only one interconnect smart interconnect it's taken like a peripheral So we have only this AXI interconnect, he is getting reset from here So that's it, this completes, so let's regenerate layout, save our block design and let's check the design These are for DDR, they are all fine, otherwise there are no errors Everything looks fine, address editor, make sure all addresses are assigned

They are assigned, so our DMA controller can access DDA memory, Atagen from this project. And in the constraints file, if you're reusing the old one, You already have constraint for this reset and clock, You need to remove that only for reset, Clockwise from this I know to be. Okay, so remove that constraint for reset But we no longer have... So, that's it. Now you can generate pitch stream and parallelly you can export it into SDK. Now, writing software you will see in the next tutorial. Thank you.
