Now before we move on, I want to show you one more feature of Vivado. So you might have seen people are distributing the Xilinx project in the form of TCL file so you might not see the XPR project or any of the IP core files instead you will be just seeing a dot TCL file and you'll be able to regenerate your entire system from this TCL file. So i'll just show you how to system, and you want to distribute your system using pickle. You design your entry system and you make sure everything works fine. You can weld it, you can simulate, you can implement check everything once you're happy with your design you should go to file and choose write project here

he will ask you where save that script file so I'll just go ahead and create a folder and call OK, systems, script. I'm going to save my TCL file here. We need to give some name also. Let's call it SysGen.TCL that's the name of the TCL. Now better to click this option also create block design using TCL so what it does is this block diagram information is also converted into TCL format otherwise you will have a top TCLs file which is using Some other file which is used for generating this block design. So let me go ahead and just use this option also, and you just say save and Vivado will generate that file for you.

Okay so let's go ahead and see that file. So this is that file. So you'll be able to distribute this file to other people so that they can regenerate it. Now some of the few issues are depends, okay? So if you have some Verilog file which you wrote, for example I have MUX.v this one it is my code not from Xilinx and if you have XTC file again which is modified by you so this XTC was written by us both will be using the absolute part in your Computer. So this we will have to modify so that other people they can also write the system, otherwise they should have to keep this file exactly at this location.

So I think they will always list these files at the top which may be the problematic files and those files you will have to do some modification in the file path. What you should do is OK, maybe we can create a new folder and let me call one as HDL and one as constraints and whatever files are referred here you will copy them this local folder. So let me go to my Vivado project, and this is this one I guess, so this one new, so our MUX is sitting here. So that I will copy to my HDL folder as well as the.wrap file also I will copy which is This is inside our sources, sources1, inside block design, VGA system, HDL and VGA system wrapper.

So these two files will be copying this HDL folder and the constraint file which will be in the constraints folder that we will copy to constraints folder here. OK, now we'll have to edit these things here. So wherever he's referring my log files, we'll have it. Okay, so origin project Set the directory path for the original project from the script was exported. That's fine You don't have to change because he is not going to use it this we have to change. Okay, so this is where he is accessing the MUX So let me just call it now HDL slash MUX and this one is HDN slash VGSystemRACK So those two we changed. Now, we have to change where the constraints are. Okay, so this is one place where constraints.

Okay, so let's call it constraints. And there is one more place here. Constraints. Although the full path is not here, This is actually using that XTC file. So this place also you should change. Okay, so and This one again marks, so HDL marks and I guess that's it. I can search with this part, it's fine. Yeah, so that's it you can just zip this folder, this folder and distribute other people so that they can regenerate it. Now i'll show you how to regenerate your system. Assume you are the one who got that script file. So let me close this project and You can regenerate the system using the tickle now that you can do either from the command prompt or From Vivado itself, so I will show you how to do it from Vivado

It is easy to do from the command from also not much difference What you should do is at the bottom of Vivado when you open you will have this tickle console So, even if you don't have any project, you can choose Run TclScript from here and you can browse and show that TclScript or you can use change directory here and browse and go to that folder and run it from here. So let me do the change directory. SoC uses system script, so you change directory and after that you just type source, sysgen.exe, whatever is the tickle for.

And now you will see like he automatically opened the project, VGA interface, he created the project, now he's running commands from the one by one, so you'll see like he is now generating the block design, he's adding the IP core, he's add the pins, now you'll see Another issue that we usually face is the versions of Vivado not matching when we are trying to Regenerate, for example I'm using now 2017.4 version and assume have a different version so here I have 2018.3 and let's see what happens when I run a script generator in 2017 in 2018. So first let me again read this folder, this is the folder regenerated by Vivado okay so you can see all project and old source files

Everything is there. So I'm going to use the same folder location, so we have to hit that folder. And now using this, okay, okay, now he's trying to regenerate the system. Okay, he created the project. He's trying to generate the block design. Now you can see the command and create, underscore B, D, underscore design, create block design. So, we got an error. The error will be also coming in the TCL console. So he is saying, error, you can see Zynq's IP clock 5.4 is not supported for the current product. The data-supported version for this part is 6.0.

So this is the error that you will usually get. Because the TCL script it also includes So, the first step is to use the version number of the IP cores. Now, when Xilinx releases new versions of Vivado, they usually upgrade the IP core versions also. If the numbers are not matching you will start to get this error. We were using Octvizart 5.4 in 2017 and in 2018 version what is available is version 6. So there are techniques where you can modify this tickle script where the versions of IP won't matter. That technique I will show you later or I will show the tickle script for that later. The usual method to solve it is, you just go ahead and see wherever that IP

So there are two ways to solve it. Either you delete that folder and rerun, or in the tickle, There is a command where he's generating the project. We create project this one, so there we have to add the option hyphen force, that means if the project already exists, he will delete that project and he will regenerate the project. So it seems like only the clock generator had version issue all other versions are matching Vivado, VIVADOS, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-T Vivable IP in the current Vivado version and in the TCL you just have to update it.

So once you do that everything will be fine and you'll have your entire system here. So finally I will just show you how to run it from the command prompt also, for that path Vivado tools should be already configured and you just go there and let's read this folder, change the interface and you type the command Vivado-mode, GCL-source name of the middle script. Vivado has actually three modes, one is the GUI mode, GUI mode, which we have been using, the graphical mode. Another one is the TCL mode where you won't have graphics and you will be dealing entirely using TCL.

And there's a third mode also called the Batch mode, where you won' t create even the project file. Everything will be in system so you'll be dealing everything in the memory of the system, You won't have separate project file and all. So if you run this one, you will see the same thing happens, And everything happens much faster. So, you can see he is opening the project. Here you can see already created the folder. He already opened the project and now he is generating block design. Yes, so finally you should get the sprint project created and you can exit from the TCL mode and you can just go ahead and open this XP up project and go further.

Now the other TCL commands for Vivado we may see later, if possible I will have separate tutorials on features of Vivado. All the synthesis implementation bit-gen everything can be run from the TCL command prompt you don't have to even open this project okay so that's all in this video so I'll be posting the pug then also in git in the VIL format. Thank you.
