Hello all welcome back. In the last tutorial we have written the software for Xilinx VDMA, IP core and we used it to display the vertical stripe test pattern on the screen. So in this tutorial we are going to display an image on the monitor so that's what our initial motivation was. We were doing image processing and we wanted to show the output of image and for storing this image in the DRA memory. So if you haven't watched that video, you need to watch it the technique. Okay so at that time, this array I generated using Verilog itself. Now the issue with that is If you are using BMP image, the data corresponding to the first pixel in the BMP image is not stored at the first position, it is stored in the inverted position.

Okay so the bottom left corner that is representing the first pixel. So if you directly use that array and try to use it on the monitor, you will see an inverted image. On a computer you are not seeing like that because the software which is opening this BMP image he knows like this is BMP image so how it is stored and also he will show you properly. That's why the header is important. Here we don't have the BMP header information, we have the raw data. So the pixels should be in the order. Okay so the first pixel should be the first element in the array that you can easily do with Math Lab if you have Math Lab.

If you don't have Math Lab you can write a Python or C script which can easily do it. So in Math Lab this is how I'm doing it. I'm just reading that image and I'm opening a text file, then I go through the row and column and I take element by element from that image and just print the corresponding decimal value and finally close that file. So once you do like that it will look like this, you'll get that array so this is the first pixel, this is the second pixel so on and so forth and that you can just add Head of File, imagedata.h, declare char imagedata as an array, and you just put two curly brackets at the beginning and you have that constant array.

So I'm going to include this header file to my previous code here so that now this array which represents the image becomes part of my software. So that is one technique. So in the previous tutorial what we did was, okay so this is what we did, we had this for loop which is basically generating that stripes right? So instead of that now I have written a new function and we are going to call that function drawImage and this is the function which is going to help us to display this image on the screen. Remember your image data, it is a continuous array and so called the data buffer. You remember we have this buffer here, this one, this is what is transmitted to the monitor and that is also

a constant array with this size. Now suppose the size of your image, the resolution of your image If it is same as the resolution of your display, life is much easier. You can simply copy that image data to this buffer and you will see it on the screen. But in most of the cases, that is not the case. For example, in our case, the image resolution is 512x512 but the resolution of the monitor is this one, 1920 x 1080 or 1080 x 1920. So they are not matching, okay? So you have a big array which is representing your frame and you have a small array which is for presenting the image.

So if you directly copy this image to our video buffer instead of showing it as a 512 by 512 I think it will be less than one by fourth of the actual image size because you see the horizontal SPI-C is 1920 and here it is only 512. So you won't see the actual image, you will see some gibberish on the screen. So what you have to do is you need to copy this image data to the appropriate position within this buffer so that image looks like a proper image. So that's why we have this function. So the input to this function are the size of your frame, you can specify the horizontal and vertical sizes of your frame.

You can also specify the size of the image. So let me say like H size image and the image V size. I have this constant declared here both 512 so you specify the size of the image and you need to specify the offset basically from which position he should start displaying the image on the monitor. So let's display it at the middle of our display, so if I write this equation or this expression so the horizontal Z You can read it and easily understand it. What it does is, it has these two for loops which is going through the entire frame buffer pixel by pixel and if the pixel value is less than the offset or if it is more than offset plus image vertical size that means these are the

pixels above the image and these are the pixels below the image when we are going to display So we have to display the same value because our monitor is a tri-color monitor but our image is a grayscale image so if you want to display a grayscale on a tri-colo monitor you have to give the same pixel intensity value to R, G, P, all three channels then you will see it like a grayscare and I am just incrementing the image pointer after copying this At the end we need to do a cache rush so that it gets stored in the DDR and we just go back.

So instead of this code, we have this code. That's the only difference. Okay, so now let us go ahead and test it. And this is the output I am seeing. I cannot see LANA clearly but you can see some kind of outline of LANA on the monitor but it is not clear. So why is it happening? Because if you remember our pixel values, they are 8-bit but our VJ interface, it is only 4-bit. So finally only the lower 4 bits from the pixel value will be going to the monitor. So if you have a pixel value say 255 which is supposed to be a white pixel since only the lower four bits are going to the display in 255 lower 4-bits are 0. So instead of seeing white, you will be seeing black. Okay? So what you have to do,

you have to shift it right by 4 position, you need to uniformly scale all the pixels. Okay, so you need to either shift it by 4 bits or you can divide pixel value with 16 because Right shift by 4 bits is same as dividing by 16. Okay, so now let's try and now we can see Lena clearly but when you sit on your monitor you will clearly see the effect of removing that lower four bits So there is some reduction in the quality of the image. Okay, So that's all in this tutorial I'll be sharing So, we can check it in another tutorial.

Okay. Thank you.
