Hello all! So this tutorial is a culmination of what we have been doing in the previous tutorials. So our aim is to do some image processing, we'll be trying edge detection. At the end of edge detection we should be able to see the output on our monitor. So there should be some provision using which I should be able see the original image as well as the I'm going through all the steps here, especially hardware design, those who missed any of the previous tutorials for completeness, and all the source code will be available to you through the kit repository.

So I'm starting a new project and let's call it Image Processing VDO display. We are using ZedBoard, but practically you can use this code for any of the ZYNC devices. If you don't have ZYNC device, you can use other FPGAs also, but instead of the processing system, you'll have to use some soft processor like Microplace. So let's go ahead and create the block design, so let's call it system as the block design. And the first thing we need to do is to configure our IP repository. So we'll go to settings, I'm going to use my own IP for doing the edge detection which we developed previously.

So we'll goto repository and add my path to the repository. When I post this in git, I will have a script file which will do all these things for you. So don't worry. So we'll have IP repo. Okay. Now we will start with adding our processor. So we have Zing processing system. We'll run block automation for connecting DDR as well as other fixed input outputs. Now let's go ahead and do the image processing part. So remember for image processing we have to stream data from the external media through our IP core through XSCTDMA controller. So let's go head and add the XSCTMMA controller which is a memory map stream device so we just I just want to use the simple mode so we can disable scattergather mode

this width defines how much data you can transfer in one shot let's put the largest value and check this option Hello Unaligned Transfer and say okay let's bring our IP here which is called Sobel OK, so he has the stream interface. So this maxis, mm2s I'm going to connect here. And this is the output but output is only 7-bit and here the stream input is 32-bit. So let's add a width converter I think or width should be XIFOR stream that I would convert. Master Interface Width is 32 bits, so 4 bytes. Clave interface he will automatically detect, it is 1 byte.

So let's connect it here and the master interface we can connect to this interface. Now connection automation, he'll be running an automation for connecting the clock and reset. OK, so let's go ahead and run connection automation. So all clocks and reset are connected. Now remember we are going to connect our system to a display. So the controller for that display will have to run a very particular clock frequency depending upon the display resolution. So we are going run at 10ITP resolution on the monitor. SoC, V So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, VDMA, UART, So the input clock frequency is 100 MHz and output clock frequency we need 148.5 and this reset signal we can remove, you don't want to reset the clock generator okay now the

input to the clock is 100 MHz coming from the processor so this output from the processor I'm disconnecting and that I'm going to connect to my clock wizard and output from this clock wizard will be connected to all other IP codes. So he is the only one driving the clock. Similarly, the lock signal from the clock wizard which is saying the clock has been locked and it is stable, the output clock connected here to the research generator so that he keeps our entire system under reset until the clock from clock wizard becomes cheap. Okay, so that part is done now we need to connect the DMA to the external DDR through the PS for that we need to enable one of the high performance ports so let's go ahead and choose HP

and let's enable HP0, 64 bit wide. And you can run connection automation and you will see these two interfaces they'll get connected with the HP4. So run connection automation, HP, clock source, okay so clock wizard output instead of auto let's choose that or he may connect to the 100 wires we don't want So, that will happen. Okay so now you can see the output here. It got connected here so we have one more so let's run connection automation once again clock so it's again 148.5 megahertz so these two they got connected with the smart interconnect whose output got connected to the HP board and all the clocks are connected with the output of the clock wizard.

So this reset also we need to connect to here. Okay, so now the only thing that is left is the interrupt signal from our IP core which we need to conduct to the PS. Okay, so that we will do after a few moments. Let's bring the video controller part. So this is the image processing part. Now we will do the video interface part. So first thing, we'll bring the video timing controller and we can disable this light interface. Since we are not planning for runtime reconfiguration, We just want to generate video signal, not detect.

So you can disable this part. And here we can specify our Intertet resolution, 1080p, and we can just say OK. Now the output clock, we can connect it to the output from the clock generator. Clock enable, we can permanently make it high so we can bring a constant IP on this. OK and reset, we can collect to this reset. OK so that's about video timing generator. Now we need to bring the XS4-Stream to video out. SoC, VDMA, ILA, ILA-SP, ILA-P, so let's call video out, XSCT, VD clock, we can directly connect, clock enable, again we can permanently make it one, this and video output, okay so these are the signals going out from that H-Sync and V-Sync you can directly make it as external signal. Now this video data we need to do a multiplexing

we need to make sure the output data is zero whenever there is no valid video signal so for Let me quickly write a small multiplexer, so let's call max.v and we can say input I control signal, input bit V down to 0, we have I data, we have output data, okay, I This signal is saying like VDIA signal is an active VDIA, otherwise it will be 0 during horizontal and vertical blanking and sinking duration. So we need this, now it is 24 bit, 8 bit per color channel but on the board we have only 4 bit so we need to use a slice IP take only 4 bit from this.

So let's bring the slice IP here and let's say our input data width is 24, output is 3.0 and that represent our R channel this one is R so let's rename it VGA underscore R So same way we need for G as well as B, so this is G and it is 7 bound to 8 and this is for B that is 19 down to 16. Only lower 4 bits from each channel. OK, so that's the part is done. Let's rename them also. This is the green. This is JBLOW. Maybe this we can just call it X-Sync and V-Stakebox. Okay, so that part is done. Now the input video that is going to come from the DDA memory and to access DDR we are going to use VDMA IP from Xilinx again.

It's specialized IP, Video DMA IP, so let's add VDMA, Video Direct Access Memory and here we only want to read from memory so we can disable the right channel. We are going to use only one frame buffer because we just have image, not any video. And here stream data width 24 bits RGB memory map is fine and here choose allow online transfers once again okay so that's about VDMA now its stream output should be directly connected to the video input here. And the AXI Lite interface should be connected to the GB port and this should be connected to HP port. So again you can either run automation or you can do it manually also for example we have AXI interconnect here, it has only one master interface so

We can make it two master interfaces and this master interface we can connect to the Xilinx. Similarly, all the clocks we can connect. Okay, and the reset signal to the peripheral reset here. And this one, MMT-S, we need to connect to the HP port. So up to you, you can enable another HP port here because the first HP port is used by this DMA also or you can use the same HP port, doesn't matter. So what you have to do is in the interconnect here, smart interconnect we need to enable one more slave interface and this signal we can connect here. Okay so let's see what is left. PS7, XC peripheral, MXC clock OK, so this clock, this also we can connect and this reset that also we can

connect. So either you can run connection automation but in this case you should be very careful where he's connecting the clock signal. So make sure instead of choosing auto you choose the clock source as the output of the clocking is not as the output from the processor. OK, so now the only stuff that is left is the Interop signals, so we need interrupt from this DMA controller, this DMA controller as well as from our IP core. So we have three interrupt signals coming and we need to connect them to the interrupt controller of Zynq. So we need to go here and we can choose interrupts and PSPL interrupt, we can enable it OK, we need to combine all these interrupt signals together and give it as a bus here.

For that we need the CODCAT IP. So we have three interrupts to combine. So let's say the number of input ports is 3. So the interrupts are from XUDMA. We are connecting only stream to memory map interrupt, to know like he has finished processing the image. We also want to connect interrupt from our IP core so the order really doesn't matter and from VDM may also we need to connect the interrupt. And finally connect the output of concat IP with the interrupt of the processor. OK, so this completes our hardware design.

So we have a somewhat moderately complex system. You save your block design and set for any error through valid design. And in the address editor this time you can see some of the addresses are not mapped because we didn't run connection automation, we did it manually. If this is the case, we need to go and check this one, auto-assign addresses. So now all addresses are assigned and rerun. Okay so these D last those warnings are fine. This warning there is a problem, S-AXI from Sobel and DMA, MM2S are not matching.

OK, so that is a mistake. So here, stream data width we chose 32, but our IP it is only 8 bits. We need to collect that and save again and OK, so now only warning is there is no TLAST signal coming from our IP which is connected to XC-DMA. That is perfectly So now you can go ahead and create HDL wrapper and you can synthesize and add the pin constraint because we have output pins here so we need to give pin location for these signals. Now that you can do after synthesis since I have constraints from my previous project, I'm directly copy pasting it, so I'll say like create constraints and I can just say system.txt file, finish, and I copy paste it from my previous project. Only difference is these names I changed

to just H-Sync and V-Sync, let's change that otherwise all other constraints remain the same. OK, so now you can just go ahead and generate with stream and export it to SDK. So this is the corresponding software code for our image processing on video display system. So I have made a new structure which is representing our image processing IP and all the attributes of image processing is stored here. So we have a pointer to the array where image is stored. We have another pointer where the processed image should be stored.

We have a pointer for the DMA controller used for this image processing. We have a point to the interrupt controller, we have information about the image resolution and we have this variable which is basically saying whether image processing is complete or not. This is the structured way of writing proper drivers, so this one is additional. Otherwise the code is just a combined code for image processing that we did before and the video processing that we do later. Okay? So again, this is the array for Lena. and here you can see I am using my new structure to create an instance from that then doing memory allocation for storing the processed image I'm doing dynamic memory allocation so remember to increase the size of heap here

Then we are storing information about image size So, I have the functions for starting the image processing, basically starting the DMA to the image processing IP, and initializing it. I So, we have fully parameterized it so that we can use the same function for grayscale image or color image. For both you'll be able to use it. So some additional features. Now what happens is once that image processing is over, we have this done variable inside the image process structure that will get set. Okay? So that is done by the Interpreteries routine here.

This one, so when we get the final interrupt from the DMA controller saying like he has completely transferred the image from the image processing IP to memory. This ISR will be called and this ISR is setting this variable and we are waiting until that variable becomes 1. Once that variable becomes high, we'll start the VDMA controller for transferring data to VGA interface. Okay, so this is the main part of the code. So here what happens is through our TerraTerm serial terminal we'll have two options one option to see the original image and another option is just see the processed image. So based on your choice he will either transfer the data stored in the image data array which

The original image, our liner, or he will transfer the processed image which is stored in the filtered image. So this is another edit which was passed to the image processor so he'll be storing the processed image in this edit okay so you'll be able to see either the original one or the processed I already have the bitstream generator, exported it, now let's program it and see the output. You can see the option here to choose between original or edge detected image, let me choose one, enter, this is what you see on the monitor, now let me choose the second option, and now you can see the edge detector image.

So since we are using a single buffer, you can actually see the image transition when we are changing the option. That is all about this tutorial. So again I'll be sharing all the code in Git. So please check the description. And the system, I will be sharing it as a tickle script for regenerating the Vivado project. So if you haven't watched the previous tutorial, how to regenerate the Vivado project from the TCL script. So please do watch it. I'll also share the bitstream so that you can directly program I have the FPGA without going through Vivado. Okay, thank you.
