Hello, so I am adding one more video to our video interfacing tutorial. This is regarding interfacing ZedBoard with HDMI Monitor. I couldn't know it before because I didn't have access to an HDMI monitor but now I managed to connect my TV to ZedBoard and do it. Now this is specific to ZedBoard if you are using Zippo, this won't work because the particular chip used in XIPO is different one but a proper tutorial is available for XIPO to do it. Okay so here also there was a tutorial from Eminet for HDMI interface but unfortunately that won't work anymore because the specific IP core used in that one is no longer supported by Xilinx and you won't be able to generate a license for that particular IP core and the alternative suggested that is a

HDMI, Now this chip it supports lot of video standard you can send data in RGB format our traditional way or you can send it in YCBCR and this is a different standard for representing image data instead of sending RGB values. You send the luminance information and the prominence information basically the intensity and the color information separately. And this has certain advantages over our traditional RGB. And the straightforward way is each of these color components will be available for each pixel. Okay, if that is the case we call it 4-4-4 format.

But here although the chip supports 24 bit YCBCR on ZedBoard they have connected only 16 widths again most probably to save some space on PCB. So they are following something called 4-2-2 mode, that means for every pixel we will send the luminance information, the brightness information, but the color information is not sent for every pixel. Two consecutive pixels they will have same color information so this will reduce the number of pins on the board. If you speak about actual video transmission this will help in reducing the bandwidth.

So the IP core, there is an IP core directly available from our net for the HDMI transmitter part. So this can be directly interfaced with our AXI video IP. Okay? So that's the main advantage. So I'm starting from our VGA design so everything is exactly same as whatever we did for VGA Except in the final stage, the output of this XSCT to video out, we connected to some MUX and from there we directly connected to the pins. Okay? Instead of that now this output will have to connect to this IP and he will convert it into the HDMI format for you.

So I have kept it in my IP repo so that it will be directly detected here. So I'm just adding that IP, HDMI. This is that IP. It is written in VHDL but good thing is Vivado it supports mixed language so it doesn't matter whether part of it in VHDl and part of it in Verilog. So this is the actual HDL code. The original code I guess is directly available from analog devices and on it they have modified it slightly. Anyway, so we take that IP HDMI, ZedBoard HDMI output and we can directly interface it with this IP. So here's our output now I can directly connect and the clock everything is exactly same you're going to run at 148.5 megahertz for supporting 1080p

resolution, so this reset is a active high reset okay so that's one thing we need to remember. So we need a constant and we are never going to reset this IP so let's make it constant value 0 and connect it to reset this is for interfacing the audio to HDMI so as you know HDMI it's a multimedia interface it can send video V SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, ZSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. SoC, Vitis is a very good example of how to do this. SoC, soC, Vivano, ILA and ILA are using this as a tool for the Remember, before the input to our video stream IP it is directly coming from our VDMA Now that is not going to work because this is a 24-bit RGB format and here doesn't support RGB We need to convert it into YCVCR

So first let's do it. So that IP is directly available from Xilinx So you can search from RGB to YCR-CB Color Space Converter. So we take that IP and let's see any configuration. Yeah, so this is good enough. We don't have to change anything. You can directly connect it. So this output we give here and same clock. Clock enable, we permanently make it 1. SoC, we already have an IP, yeah, we have this constant one already, so clock enabled. We can connect here and every certain we can connect to the XUI certain. Okay, so that part is also done.

Now this output it is in YCVCR but it is 24 bit so that we need to convert it into 16 bit, okay? Because YCBCR422 mode supports 16 bit only. So on every clock we will send one pixel. So first pixel assume you will send the Y and CB information for next pixel you will send Y and CR information that's how we are able to save 8 bits for every pixel. So two consecutive pixels, they will have same CB and CR values. But each of them, they'll have different Y values, the intensity value, okay? So that's the technique. So previously, Xilinx used to have an IP.

I guess it is still there, Chroma, Resampler, this IP. Now unfortunately, this is no longer supported. So if you try to use this one for generating the stream, he will give error saying like license is not available and now you can't get license for this IP. So what they recommend is a video subsystem IP, this one, video processing subsystem, this is a pretty complicated IP and it's not very difficult to convert from 444 to 222. For that we don't have to use this heavyweight IP. There's lot of resources and the software is super complicated but this IP can do a lot of things.

So, actually, RGB2, YCBCR conversion as well as sub-sampling everything you can do together but no need to use that heavy IP. So I have written a very simple code. This will do our sub-samplings. So here you can see it's following AXI stream standard. Input is 24 bit YCBCRs in 4-4 mode. Output is 16 bit in YCBCRS mode in 4-2-2 mode. So you can basically see what I am doing. On every clock, I'm just tolling a register. So if register value is 1, I am concatenating the lower 8-bit with the upper 8-bit. If it is 0, I am just taking lower 16-bit. So you will see in both cases, I am sending the lower 8-bit that is representing the Y part. So the next two bytes, one of them it represents

CB, the other one it represents CR. So in alternate clocks I'm sending either CB or CR. So in this way we are actually doing the sub-synth. Now you will see I am not registering anything here because if you add registers here and that will make your design pretty complicated because there can be back pressure coming from the receive part on the master stream then you'll have to manage it on the slave side also so that will make design a little bit more SoC, VIT, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-SPF, ILA. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, Zynx, ZynQ, Vitis.

SoC, Vitis is a very simple word. So that's what I am going to use for chroma sub-sampling. So just drag and drop it here. You need to make an IP and dot. And since we are following a certain naming style, S underscore AXIS underscore video, 24, clock, connect here, reset, connect here. So we have done RGB2, YCVCR for YUV, whatever you call it. And we have sub-sample from 4.4.4 to 4.2.2 Now we can directly connect this output to our XC4-Stream video output. To this guy also, you need to tell what kind of input you are providing.

Now, by default in the previous tutorial it will be RGB. This one this you need to change to YUV422. Okay? So remember to change it like this then only this video input will become 16. In the previous tutorial if you see if you choose RGB this will be 24 bit. OK, so that's not what we need. We need only 16 bit. All these are happening because of housing is connected with the unlocked devices chip on the board. So we can't do anything about it. So you need to choose YUV422. OK, so now it is 16. Now just take this and connect it. OK, so That's it, so that is the major modification. Now another thing that we need is again this particular chip he needs a lot of configuration before he actually transmits HDMI data to your

HDMI monitor okay so to this chip also you need to tell what format he should follow because he supports a lot of formats and a lot of other information so don't know all those things All those controlling information should be sent using an I2C interface. So we need additional I2C interfaces and all these configuration matters should be sent through that I2C interface by the processor, so we need to add that also. Let's come back and let's add an I2c. and let's add an I2C, so we can have AXI-I2C or there is a I2C interface inside the PS and you can connect that also through the MIU interface, EMIU interface both are fine.

So we are adding this I2C and we can just do run configuration and click everything OK it does everything for you, now this will be connected to one of the GB port and this directly became an external interface. Again those who are interested, I2C that is following a bidirectional communication although there are only two signals clock and data so here you can see but here from the IP you will see like there are three signals for clock this one and data okay so this is input, this is output and this is a control signal So basically these signals, they should be connected to a tri-state buffer and that tri-state buffers should be controlled using this control signal That's how we are actually getting bidirection

Now good thing is that buffer instantiation, Vivado will automatically do for you don't have to worry that you cannot see here but he will do it on the top file, I'll show you So first, again I'm going to change the name of the interface because the name in my constraint file is different. Let me call it Zed underscore HDMI underscore PIG2C Okay so that's it. Now let's check. Okay so these are known warnings they look fine. Now let me show you one more feature of Vivado when we do block design. So now you can see how our design looks pretty complicated.

So if anyone else looks at the design, it will be really difficult for them to understand how things are connected together. Okay, so that's where we have the idea of hierarchy. So blocks which are logically Connected together, okay, which make the same subsystem. You can combine them to make a single hierarchy. For example in our design, we have clearly two subsystems. So I have a subsystem which is doing our image processing, so my Sobel wavewidth converter So, you can see that by clicking control on your keyboard on the logically connected modules.

Okay? So all of them and you can right click and choose create hierarchy and you can give some names so this is okay video subsystem let me call it now you can see they are all combined to a single block okay and its color will be slightly different now if you plus this XSCT, XSCT plus sign, it will expand and you can see all the system inside that. Now even if you look at your interconnect, AXI interconnect, it's actually a hierarchy. If you expand it, you can see there are multiple blocks inside this AXI inter-connect.

We have couplers, we have crossbar, we have output couplers and even the couplers if you open, you can say it is composed of other sub-modules, XC protocol converter. So again that's a good feature of Vivado. So same thing I can do here also, my Sobel with converter, XC, DMA they are all together so I will combine them and create hierarchy and call it image process. Let's regenerate now our system looks much simpler and I need to combine things which are not logically connected. So these are like standalone modules, no point in combining them but otherwise now I have two subsystems here combined into a single hierarchy so my design is making more sense now. Okay so that's it, so save your design and let me just generate the HDL wrapper once again to show you that I-U buffers. Okay, so now if you go to system wrapper, you'll see like he has instantiated two I-U buffers, input output buffer right? So this is the final output, ZHDMI2CSL-I-U okay? So this one and this one are coming from our block and this is that control signal, that's also coming from the block. So using this tri-state buffer, input and output he combined them to input output. And we have two of them four clock and data. So that's why he has instantiated two. So that Vivado will do it for you automatically.

Now in the constraint, we already had these VGA constraints. We can remove all of them and we need to add the constraints for the I2C controller, basically the interface for I2C, clock and data here and the HDMI. So for HDMI we have clock, V-Sync, H-Sync as before, there is a data enable then 16-bit data okay so i have already added it so update your constraint file now we can just go ahead and generate the bitstream. Once hardware design is completed, we can go to the software part. So the software design also, 95% it is same as our software for VGA. The only extra thing is we have this I2C header file and the corresponding I2C source file which is used for initial configuration of the HDMI 5 chip.

So you can see in the code we have this extra line here where we are initializing the I2C controller and within the I2c controller initialization you can see in this loop we are actually configuring the chip. Okay so all the configuration information that is placed out here and that's how we are doing it. Now why these exert values are coming? You will have to refer to the documentation for the file I have taken it from the Avnet core, so that's why I have kept the Avnett header. So if you are using it remember to keep the header here because it's licensed to Avnett, the I2C part.

Now, other than that everything looks exactly same. Only additional difference is previously in this draw image whenever we were sending some pixel information that value was divided by 16 because for VGA there are only 4 bits DSC used on the ZedBoard. So we need to remove The lower 4 bits for every pixel. Now in case of HDMI, that's not the case. We are not directly using the RGB values. Instead of that we are converting it into YCPC format. So that divide by 16, we need to remove. Otherwise it will be very difficult to see.

So once you have done, we can test it. I'll share the code. I will share the link script also because remember to increase this heap size because we are using some dynamic memory allocation, so heap size should be large in this case. So once it is done, as usual, we can test it. So set the run configuration to program the FPGA and check the application also, so let's program. So now as you can see, you can choose between the original image and the edge detected image and display this coming on a HDMI monitor. So remember to connect the HDMI cable between the board and the monitor. Thank you.
