Hello all, so since we have some idea about hardware software code design now let's try to do something interesting. So let's try to develop our traditional snake game on Z board. Okay so again we are going to do a software hardware code design approach. You can build this application easily using in pure software and the Zynq processor will be able The PS part will be able to implement it. But what we'll do is, part of the game will be run in hardware. I mean most part will be run on hardware. The core logic will be in hardware.

The software will just be used for controlling our display or checking some corner cases like the weather game is over something like that. Otherwise, most of the part will be done in hardware. Then only we can call it a hardware software code design. On the screen you can see the game is already running. So, the snake it is moving once every second and you can see it is catching the prey and whenever it catches the prey the size of the snake is increasing also on the top right corner you can see current score so for each prey we will increment the score by 1 Z1, ZSCT, ZS So, our score is now 7, 8, 10, and now you can see it is moving faster, at double the speed.

Now the traditional other stuff are still there so if the snake bites itself, you will see game over, print game over on the screen. And if you again press the center button, if you want to restart the game, so it will restart. And also if the snake hits the frame, hits the wall, in that case also there will be game over. Okay, so in addition to that, there are some more features. One is you can always control the size of the playing area. For example, now it is, I have configured at 40 by 20 size. If I change it to 60 by 40, it will look like this.

We have a larger playing area. Now if you wish like a bigger snake because you are playing somewhat further away So you want to increase the size of everything that is also possible so you can see it We have a super big snake actually which is four times larger than our previous snake Ok, now there are again other features Vocabulary is a very simple technique. and also set like whether the speed should increase each time it reaches some particular value or whether it should remain constant, all these options. So a lot of this control things they are done in software but the core logic like how the snake moves when the snake should move these are purely done in hardware where should be

The game is over, so we can have game over due to two reasons, either the snake is hitting the wall or the snake is biting itself. So snake hitting the wall case is taken care in software but snake biting itself that is taken care of in hardware. Snake hitting the wall case is taken care in software but snake biting itself that is taken care in hardware. So in that sense it's a pure hardware software code design. So the actual development we will do in some of the future tutorials today I just wanted to give you an introduction and I would like those who has z-board to try it out so I'll I will be just showing what we can do, provide that you have the bitstream and the ELF file.

Okay? So the only thing that you need to run this is the hardware part which is the bitstream and the software which is the ELF. So if someone gives you the bitstream and ELF how to run it. So there are many ways of doing it. One is you can use the SD card coming from ZedBoard but the SD card comes with the Linux preloaded so we don't want to mess it up. That is one reason. So instead of that, I will just show you using SDK how you can just do it. It's very easy. So in the Git, I'll be providing the bitstream and the ELF file.

So what you can do is you can just go to Xilinx SDK. And the version, it really doesn't matter. Provided it supports sync devices, so any version, future or past. I'm using 2017 for developing, but here I am trying to use SDK version 2018.3 So you choose that and you just choose create application project and give some name to your project and BSP it doesn't matter But here you should choose a Z hardware platform predefined and here you can choose empty application. So you just go to run, run configuration and just do the run configuration that's it so here you can choose standalone application and here you need to browse and give the bit file so I will provide you with browse so in executable I have the bit file

and click all these options and under application you browse and choose the ELF file that will be provided. And you can just say run. Now, you will have it now you cannot change any configuration here so this is a pre-built image or as well as software so this is how it will look like but all other features are still there. SoC, you can't change any of them, but So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, ILA-
