Hello all, welcome back. So in this tutorial I am going to discuss the hardware design part of our snake game. So I'm going to call it Snake to indicate this is the snake game on the Z board. Okay, so let me initially briefly explain the logic then we will look at the hardware design. So if you are designing this game, it doesn't matter whether on hardware or software, The general idea is the same. So first what you will do is you will consider your entire display as a grid of squares. Okay, so we logically partition our display into a grid of square. Now what should be the size of the grid?

or basically the number of squares on your display that you can set. So depending upon the size you set, the size of your playing area changes or effectively the size of snake everything changes. And whenever you display the snake it will be always in the multiples of the squares. So here you can see my snake is here. So each square here makes one body part of the snake. And when we draw it on the screen, we will put some at least one pixel border here so that when the snake crosses itself, you can distinguish between its body.

Otherwise, you will see a big rectangle here. So you don't know like where is the head, where is the tail? So we usually put some space in between so that it is clear. Now the prey, in my design, it's always one square in size, but you can make it multiple square so that you have small prey, large prey and you can give a score based on the size of the prey things like that. Okay, so the snake, it moves under two conditions, under two events, okay? So whenever the user presses a valid button, because not all button presses are valid.

Suppose snake is going right if you suddenly press the left button nothing should happen. Similarly it is going up and if you press down button nothing should happen so if a user presses a value button the snake should immediately move that is one case other case is after a fixed amount of time the snake should move OK, so if even if you are not doing anything the snake will be always move. So these are the two conditions under which the snake is going to move. Now by controlling the amount of time which generates this movement, this second event, you can control the speed of the snake. So the smaller that this time amount the faster the snake will move and one more thing we need to take care is a respective

of the duration of the button press for the user for one button press the snake should move only once. If you keep on pressing the button, if you press it and hold it, the snake shouldn't keep on moving. It should move once and that's it. You need to release the button and press again for the next time. Now when we draw the snake on screen, we'll need following information so that drawing part will be done from software. So we need to know the size of the snake, how many squares are there in the body of the snake and we need to know the location of each body segment in the grid.

Okay, so these two information we need. Now again software hardware what you can do is you can store this information in an array what is the position of each body section and when the snake moves the head part, the first square it will always receive a new position depending upon the direction in which it is moving. Now, every other section, every other square will be moving to the position of the previous square. So that's the logic. So when this snake is moving right, the head he'll have a new position but this cell he will take the position of this cell, this cell he will take the possession of this cell so on and so forth.

And the last cell it will become empty if the snake is not growing okay? If the snake catches a prey, this last segment remains there. Otherwise they should become an empty cell and everyone else moves to the next position. So that is the look. So this looks like some kind of shift operation and that is very efficient to do in hardware. So if I implement a shift register, you know I can shift the end there, conduct off the shift register in a one single clock cycle. But if you are using software based shift, that is not the case.

So, in this video we will discuss the different IPs that we are going to use. So we have to develop some of our own IP and finally will combine them to build the entire hardware So in hardware design I am starting from our previous VDMA block design because we still need the video so that part remains same Okay, so that is the starting point Now first thing we are going to build is something called a debounce logic So it serves two purposes, actually one is avoiding debouncing when we press a button you can just go and search what debouncing is if you haven't heard that term before so one thing it make sure there is no debouncing when you are pressing the push buttons

and second one it makes sure for one button press there is only one pulse generator okay so here I am defining some constant What is my clock frequency? I am trying to run at 100 MHz, that I will explain why because our video part it is running at 148 MHz. So this design actually uses two clock domains also, 100 and 148. So clock frequency is this much and this is basically defining what should be the minimum duration of pressing to consider it as a valid button press. So if you press anything less than 0.01 seconds But it's like 10 millisecond, it won't be taken as a valid pattern press you need to press at least for that time Okay, so of course you'll be pressing that much

So what we are doing is we basically have a counter and that counter will keep on incrementing until it reaches this product okay Product between these many. That means those many clock cycles Have elapsed and Once it reaches that value it remains there OK, otherwise the counter will go back to 0 and we'll have problem. So it reaches that maximum value and it remains there. And as soon as you release the button, note of button, that counter will become 0. So in our voting machine design also, we have used similar logic.

And for generating this single pulse, this is what I am doing when the counter reaches this maximum value minus 1, this signal will become 1. and in all other cases it will remain 0, okay? So if you put counter equal to clock count, this signal will become high and it will remain high. Okay, but that's not what we need. We want a single pulse. So you can choose any value between zero and clock count minus one here, it will serve the purpose. So same effect will happen. So this will become high for one clock, then it will become zeros, okay?

So since this is a very small logic I have directly written it in the same project So that we can just drag and drop it into the block diagram. Okay, so that will look later. But other pieces of hardware, I'm going to write them as separate IP cores. Okay, so the first IP core I'm going to make is called a timer. It's a very simple IP. So the purpose of this IP is to generate the timing events. So as we discussed before, after a certain amount of time, we need to move the snake. So we need to generate a timing event that is done by this IP, it's an AXI-Lite IP.

So as discussed before you started as an AXI4 IP and you just modify it from the template. Again logic is very simple. You will get timer from Xilinx IP cores but they have either very simple IP like fixed interval You cannot change the value inside the timer, it will always run for the same amount of clock cycles that you specify. You cannot change it during runtime or they are more than what we need. So I need a very simple timer where I should be able to change the value during runtime. Okay? So the duration which the timer will run, that I should be able to modify, I should be able to enable or disable the time.

These are the only two requirements. So that's why we are writing our own timer. So what the timer does is it has a counter inside here and whenever you press reset, okay, counter is zero. So this is some kind of interrupt signal. So this is like an interrupt signal. What this signal does is whenever the counter, this is a down counter so it will start from some high value and it will count down and whenever it reaches zero, This signal will become 1 to indicate that counter has offload. And that signal we are going to use as the timing event.

So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPT, ILA‐SPT, ILA- style, we use in Vilog and he will just count down again. Okay? So that's what this counter is doing. So again I have packed it into IP format so that we can directly use it in our block design. Now the main IP that we are going to use, I am calling it the Snake Tracker. Again this is also an Xilite IP core but it is much complicated than our timer. Okay? CoreLogic, CoreTracker, This is the guy who keeps tracking of the snake. Here you can see some parameters.

Here maximum snake length I have defined it as 1600. That means the maxisize of a snake cannot be more than 1600. This you can go and change, increase or decrease. If you increase it, the resource utilization increases. We shouldn't go for all kill, we are going for a harder design so don't put it too high. And this is one reason why we are not going to run at 148MHz. So as the size of the snake increases, the hardware logic becomes higher and higher which prevents our FMAX, maximum clock frequency at which we run.

If it is maybe 400, 500 you can definitely run at 150 MHz. But for larger values when I check the timing failure so that's why the snake part we are going to run at 100 MHz. Okay, so here you will see a two-dimensional array this is basically the shift register which keeps track of the entire snake. So it doesn't matter what is the current size of the snake, the information of that entire 1600 cells will be always saved in hardware. Because in hardware we do not have this dynamic memory allocation. If you are building it using software, you don't have to declare a constant array like that. As the size of the snakes increases, you can allocate dynamic

memory, and you can increase the size of this shift register which gives the snake information. But in hardware everything is fixed so you have to predefine what is the size of these array. So it is 1600 and each element in that 1600 is 16 bits wide. So this is like a huge memory not very huge but it's large enough you can see this is 1600, this is 2 bytes SoC, 3200 bytes, 16 bits, lower 8 bits, X coordinate, upper 8 bits, Y coordinate, 16 bit, Y, I Start here, OK. So this is the logic which is basically deciding whether a user button press is valid.

So the four push buttons left right top bottom you can see they are coming here from external world after going through that debouncing they'll be coming here so for one button press one of these signals or one or more of them will become high for a single clock cycle. So what this logic does is it is basically checking whether a button press is valid or not. So you can see the condition here, if down button is pressed and this is basically saying what is the current direction of the snake. So when we start our hardware, it will always move right.

So if the down button is pressed and if the snake is not pressed, then the sound button Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPF, XS When we start our game, the initial position of the head will be provided by software. So that is coming through this signal, I start position, you can see that it's coming as an input to the core tracker which is actually connected to slave register 3. So from software I can control where should be the initial head position of my snake. Okay? So that's So under reset it goes like that.

In all other cases, so you can see there are two cases here, iMove and ButtonPress. So ButtonPress we are generating from here when the user presses iMove is coming from our timing event. So the signal from our timer, we will connect to this signal ultimately. So whenever the timer gives an intro under these two conditions, my head will move and the new position of the head is calculated based on the direction which we calculated here. Okay, so if we are moving down, okay, these as I mentioned XY coordinates, if I'm moving down my Y coordinate will increase because on the screen that's how, okay, Y coordinate increases when you move down and X coordinate increases when

and you move right. So down, up, right, left, based on that we are recalculating the new coordinates of our head. Now this part is for the remaining entire body. So every Ith one except 0 which is our head will take the position of the previous cell whenever these events occur either button and press Alt timer or Flow. Now, other than head, the other four squares, they are also initialized when we press Research because when we start the game, we need to see the snake and how big that snake will be? Again you can set it in software with some constraint.

So as you can see here, I'm initializing head here. In addition to that, I am initializing for other positions also and their positions are head position minus one, minus one. So you're basically subtracting the X coordinate. So you will see a snake horizontally. Now from software, you can set the size of snake as one, two, three, four or five because the maximum size is five because here I am initializing only head and four other segments. After that, yeah whenever these events occurs, the snake will move. Now this logic, it basically checks whether game over based on the condition that the snake bites itself.

Okay so that is done by this logic. So you can see what it basically does. It is comparing the coordinates of the head cell with something called this ocell. OK, so let's see what is this O cell. So as I mentioned before, if we want to display the snake on the screen, we need to know the position of every cell. So that is done by software. So he needs to get the position of any cell for that. He'll be reading this shift register through software. And where is that reading operation? That read operation is similar to our FIFO implementation.

So we have a read pointer here, which is initialized to 0. And whenever the software reads, so you can see this signal, I read position, which is coming from here, which is connected to this signal. And you can see when that signal is generated when this address is formed. So basically when software reads from slave register address 1, this signal will become high. And whenever that signal becomes high, wherever the read point reads, the coordinate of that address is sent out to the software. Again this is connected to the top, from there it will be going to the software through our AXI interface so that is what is happening.

So this Ocel position basically indicates the position of some cell which is currently read by software and software will be reading as many cells as the size of the snake. He doesn't have to read all 1600 cells because software will be knowing what is the current size of the snakes, so he'll be reading only those many cells not the entire one. So while software is reading it, what this logic does is he will compare the position of the cell that the software is reading with the head position. And if they are same in addition to that we should not make this comparison when software is reading from the head position because they will always match.

So you should not compare head with head itself, you should not compared with head with any Anybody part greater than the size of the snake. So this is the size of, if this condition happens that means the snake bit itself. So this bit will become high, Game Over and it remains high until the research signal comes. Okay so this signal will be again read by software. This one Game Over which is ultimately connected to address zero. So when software reads from address 0, he will understand like okay the snake bit itself so game over.

So that is what this logic is doing. This logic is basically checking whether the position of the prey is in the body of the snake. Okay so you know like whenever the snake catches a prey, a new prey has to be placed in the grid. So that plaything is partially done in software, but software he doesn't have the information about all the snake cells because that is sitting in hardware. So what the software does is he will send the new position of the prey to the hardware through this signal, IPrayPosition which again you can see is connected to which one here, slave register one.

So that position will be given by software. And what this logic does is similar to this one, he will compare whether the given prey position is anywhere in the body of the snake. Okay? If it isn't the body of a snake, he will make this signal high to tell the software like the new prey is in the body of the snake so he needs to replace the prey somewhere else and the software will be doing it. Now this is some corner cutting, because you will see like the hardware it is depending upon the software reading the snake cell part to do this comparison. So it may have some implication but this makes the design more efficient actually you need less hardware to

So these are our major IPs, we will use one more IP, the AXI GPIO IP, because if I want to restart my game, I need to press the center push button. So that's why we are using this logic. Okay so that's it, so these are our main IPs, We will use one IP, the XGPIU IP, Because if I want restart my game I need to push the center push-button So that's all, I have to restart my IP Because if I want to restart my game, I need to press the center push button. So that information should go to software for that we can directly use Xilinx GPIO IP and connect it to the button.

Now for this snake tracker you will see there is a reset signal here, I reset. In addition to that our read, it has a separate reset. I can independently reset the read pointer alone because that I will need to do each time before I read from the From the shift register, I'll have to reset the read point So that's why he has a separate reset and all other reason they have this reset and Both these resets they are not connected to the AXI reset They are actually connected to slave register 0 bit 0 and slave register 0 0, bit 1. So this is what we call as a soft reset. So you can issue reset to my logic by configuring my control logic it is not directly connected to my global So, this idea we call it as a soft reset.

So I can selectively reset portion of my hardware by writing to the registers. Okay so again this also I have backed into IP and now we can actually complete our block design. So as I mentioned before, I'm starting from my video blog design and we have also configured the IP-RAPO under settings so you can see the repository is configured to IP-ROPO and I have kept all my IPs in that folder. OK, so let's go ahead and start. So first thing, OK, easy thing is we first put these debounces and we can start from here. So I will just drag and drop and Vivado will convert it into a block format and we need four debounces for the four push buttons. For the center button since I am directly Xilinx, GPIO, IP, we don't need a separate logic.

So he will have his internal logic for managing these debots. We have our debawns logic here. We need four of them and this buttons we make external all of them and you can rename them I button left, I button right and so on and so forth. So that's what we'll do. Now the clock signal, as I mentioned before, the snake part is going to run at 100 MHz and our clock wizard here he is giving 148 MHz. So I will generate one more clock from this clock wizard logic so again remember this IPM, MCM or PLL it can generate up to 7 clocks from a single clock frequency.

So we already have 148, we can generate one more clock. I am asking for 100 MHz but he is saying he can provide only 99.777. Again reason is he cannot find a dividing factor which can give me this particular frequency. Again these details I will explain somewhere else how exactly the PLLs work. But this is good enough it is close to 100 good enough. So we take that clock and I'm going to connect it that clock here. Okay, so that part is done. Now let's bring our snake tracker IP which we just discussed. So this is our snake tracker again it's an Xilite IP and we can see the up down left right Connect things, so you can connect all of them here.

So you should be careful when you give the constraint to constrain these two down, so better rename it like button, something like button down like that. Okay, so I have renamed them, so this down should connect a down up to up, left to left and Write-to-Write. Now we need to connect this slave interface, so this we need to connect to the Jupy port. Okay, so we already have connection automation. Now the thing is you can run it but he may mess things up, so we will do it manually. So this XC clock is again I'm going to connect to this 100 megahertz clock.

So this is the clock, now this reset signal again you can connect it to the reset coming from this IP but a good design practice is the reset should be synchronized with the clock that you are connecting here so this clock is 100 MHz and the reset coming from here is synchronized with 148 MHz. It will of course work if you connect But that may cause issues under certain cases. So better we make one more such processor reset system, copy pasting it and we configure that 100 megahertz and use it. OK, so this is the which is used for synchronization reset.

I will connect this. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA‐Lite, The peripheral reset and signal here. Okay, this we can do a connection automation, S0, and the clock source, we need to choose the 100 MHz here, every 100 MHz so that he doesn't mess up. He used the same XI interconnect you can see he made one more master interface and that is connected The clock for this interface has been connected to the clock out. Now the only thing left is this one, iMOO, so this should come from the timing IP which basically says the timer has offload and the snake has to move.

So that should come from a timer. As I mentioned before, these are Xilinx timers and this is our timer, the symbol guy. And his interrupt signal can be directly connected here. Okay, I move and again he should also run at 100 MHz or clock out to and reset to the peripheral reset here. Slave Interface, GPGP, GPGR, GPGAP, GPGA, ILA, ILA-GPGP, ILA and ILA- Connect to this one and this one to the peripheral reset here. Okay, so that more or less completes our design. So next we can check whether our design is right or wrong.

Before that let's go to address editor and ask to assign all addresses and let's check and we are getting many warnings on Eris, so he's saying like for timer there is issue the clock and the clock wins of peripheral M0 interface, AXI timer interface must be connected to same clock and so on and so forth. So our timer this is the clock and timer is connected to Mass It also has an Xilite interface which is coming from the same interconnect and currently that is running at 148 megahertz but it's better all these things connected to GP runs at the same frequency because you can see there is our GP0 clock here which is currently connected to this 148 megaherz and things connected to Gp they are actually running at 100 megahertz.

It may cause problem, I am not sure. So what I did was everything connected to GP0, they all run at 100MHz. So this clock also let's connect to Clockout2 and this interface VDMA-Lite his This clock also and his reset also. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, XS So this is also changed, so let's connect that also to 100 MHz. Okay, so this entire interconnect is now running at 100 MHz, only our HP interface it is running at 148 MHz. Let's re-validate. That's it! So that completes our hardware design and you need to give the constraints also I have already So this remains same and this is our 4-pattern. Oh, so one thing I missed we need to add our GPE for IP to control the center push pattern which enables the reset of our game.

So we just go and XSCT, XSCT and XSct, XSct and XS And you just say always input it is only one bit I just want to connect the center button there And that's it. So you connected this should also run at 100 megahertz So we can connect it here and the reset to this one and this is going outside. Okay, so you can make it make external and the slave interface again to GP0 So again choose 100 megahertz here and that's it. You should have connected to the same interconnect So we have a very complex interconnect here, you can see.

So that's it. So I have given all the in constraint here. Let's rename that output to button center and you just give the whatever name you gave there based on that you give the constraint here and just go ahead and generate the bit string. So in the next tutorial we will discuss the software part. What is already available in Git? So you can go and check out. Thank you.
