Hello all, so in this video I am going to explain the software part of our snake game. So I am calling our snake game as Snake to indicate this is a game on ZedBoard. So the oral software it is divided into multiple source codes and header files mainly for code reuse. So we will be using lot of the code that we are writing in this tutorial for the subsequent tutorials also. So the first one is this file GameTop.c, this is the topmost file which has the main function and this is the one which is doing the overall control of the game.

Now in addition to that we have this video.h and video.c, these files they are doing the initialization of our video controller so the code here you have already seen before this is basically just doing initialization of the VDMA controller as well as connecting the VDma controller with the Intrep controller. So that Intrep controller will be passed from the top file, Gabe.top and he just initialized the VD MA and connects it with the Intrup system. We are not using any Intrep service routine for VDMA but still we are just connecting the Interop Controller with these Interop Handlies, but nothing is actually happening inside.

Now another one is these two files the graphics.h and graphics.c so in actual C language if you have used in a PC environment there is ahead of file called graphics.h which will help you to generate graphics you can draw lines or circles using the functions there but if you directly We have already tried graphics.h in Xilinx SDK, you will get an error saying there is no such header file. So the Xilinx STK doesn't come with the graphics.h because of course this header file works with the operating system, the system calls to show all these graphics so that it's not possible in stand-alone.

So we are creating our own graphics.h header file and here we have information such as the definition of different colors so you can see I have defined black color, white color etc basically they are RGB values so the lowest byte that is R then G then B, so this is black, this is white, this is red so on and so forth So if you want to define your own colors, you are free to add additional colors here. You can just add the RGB values. Then there are a lot of functions inside that. So one function is to draw some image on the screen. For this project we are not using this function. Actually this function was used for the previous project for drawing LANA on your screen but if you want to draw the figure of a snake or something,

VIDO buffer will be passed from the top file. He'll be passing, he'll be generating the buffer here you can see this is the video buffer and that will be passed to these functions whenever we are calling them. And this function is used for printing a single character on the screen okay so that is an interesting thing. So in OLED we have seen how can we print characters on OLED same concept we are going to reuse. PrintString is basically to print a string, so internally this function is using this print care in a loop until he prints all the characters and draw square, this function it just draws a square on the screen with specified size and color and the specified location

Okay, so these are the declarations and here we have the definition for all those functions. It may look a bit complicated because these are basically some mapping function to do from a single array to that video buffer. So that's why it is looking slightly complicated but if you read you might understand. Now another header file is this one, Znyq.h. So this is the main header file which has all the definitions corresponding to our game. So we have information like what is the clock frequency of our hardware, so this you should not modify unless you are modifying the clock frequency in the actual hardware.

So we are running the snake portion at Vocabulary Design” by Vivado, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, So, we are now controlling basically the interrupts to the snake controller based on that the snake is moving. Okay so it will be calculated based on these two values. Now this basically says after how many points the size of the snake should increase. So now it is done again you can change to whatever value you want. This basically defines by what factor the speed should reach. So now it is 2, that means the speed will increase after catching 10 price.

So if you don't want to increase the speed, you can just set it to 1 so the snake will always move at a constant speed. Now here we have again something called the grid size. So remember our previous tutorial where I have mentioned how our n-day screen is divided into grids, into squares. So this is basically deciding what should be the size of each square in the grid. So 40 means 40 pixels, okay? Each square will be 40 pixels. Again by changing this value you can increase the size of the snake I mean the width of the snake because it will be always one grid size wide so if you put 40 it will be 40 pixel wide, if you put 80 it will be 80 pixels wide so on and so forth.

This is basically saying after this all these parameters are in terms of grid size. How many squares should be there? So this is the width of the frame that you are drawing so it is always one grid size and this is the height and width of your playing area now I have set it to 20 by 20 so you will see it is a square on the screen again this you can increase now currently there is no checking whether this size exceeds the screen size. If you want, you can add that option and you can give an error like, he cannot draw this much big frame things like that.

And again these two you should not change. They are basically calculating the horizontal and vertical position of the frame in terms of Grids, and it will always try to place that big playing area at the middle of your screen. Okay so again don't change it this is the color of your frame now it is set to brown color and this is basically saying where the score should be shown okay so now it is this is in terms of pixels not in terms of grids so this will be on top right corner H-Size, Horizontal Size of the display minus 400. That is the offset. Now this decides the mode.

Okay so if you define white mode your screen will be white, snake will be black, otherwise screen will be black and snake will be white. And this is the color of the prey. Currently the prey will be green color. Okay now this is the structure as we mentioned before When we develop driver, we will always represent our hardware as a structure. This is the structure which is representing our entire snake controller and there's not much information here it basically has the information about the base address of the snake controller this IP and also the base address of the timer and base address of the GPIO, Remember we have a GPIO for detecting the middle button press. So this is having all this information.

Now you can combine all these IPs in hardware into a single IP and the timer, the snake tracker as well as the GPU into a single ip. In that case you will have a single base address but Here we have three different base addresses because we had three different IPs. Then there are a lot of functions actually for initialization to show the welcome screen, to show game over things like that. That we will see where these functions are used when we discuss the topmost audio. Now another interesting one is this header file phone.h.

So as you have seen in many cases we have to show character on the screen. So, this time we have to show characters in different sizes also because on the welcome screen you can see I'm showing Zynq in big letters as well as the game over I'm showing in big letters but the score I'm showing is small letter. OK, now if you start to store all this information in our memory it is going to take a lot of memory. So what we usually do is we represent again like OLED every character in the form of an 8x8 matrix. So that you can do using the same software I showed you before GLCD phone creator, you can import any of the existing system phones. Only thing you may have to do is it won't be in 8x8 so you can go ahead and delete some rows

and columns here there are option here delete row things like that and you can and make it 8x8, then you can say export to GLCD and here you will get a big array and each row in the array is representing one character. Okay? So if I'm using 8x8 so each row there will be only eight entries representing one character So that is what I have put here. This one, the only thing you may need to change is they'll be declaring it as a short type. Yeah, and so in short, that means it is going to take two bytes although you can see only one byte here. Internally it will be stored in two bytes. We don't want that.

you want to store everything in one byte. So instead of short just choose care so that each one of them represent one byte, so you can see every character is stored using eight bytes same idea as our OLED and every byte here represent one column. So for example if I have letter R here OK, so the first byte here is representing the first column here. Second byte there, this one will represent the second column, so on and so forth. That's why we have 8 entries. It is column-wise and this will be the MS bit, this will be L bit. That's how the information So I am just storing this single array. Now using some math technique, I can adjust the size of the phone when I am displaying it.

That is a basic technique used for zooming things on screen. So this is how I am storing R. If you want a larger R, what you will do is you'll just replicate every row and every column. See here? So if it is a single column of empty cells, you just replicate it. Here you have a single row of this thing, you just replicated it. So if you do like that, you will get a bigger R. The size of this R is actually four times this one because you are replicating every row and column. So you'll see in the functions here in graphics.h, we have function like print cap, This is the smallest size of 8x8 pixels.

So that's an interesting technique that we can use throughout in our future tutorials also. Again you'll have to look at the code, again it may look complicated because again like our GLCD, what happens is this entire thing is represented using 1 byte. So you will have 1 to represent it is white, 0 to represent it black. Now when you display it on our monitor which is a tri-color and each pixel is composed of 3 bytes not a single byte, single bit. So, one bit here you will have to map to. Vocabulary Design by Vivado, XSCT, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA-Lite, XS So this much part is exactly same. Then I am taking the RGB components from the color that you are specifying, then I am mapping it into 3 bytes of the video frame.

Ok so that's how you will see on the screen. OK, now this is the top one so you can see initially what we are doing is we just initialize the interrupt controller and that interrupt controller is also passed to this function init video. You have seen which basically initialize our VDMA controller and also connects the interrupt controller with VDMA interrupt. This function it initializes the snake structure so you have seen the structure XSCT is a function of the same type, which is represented by the hardware. This function will basically take all these parameters that are coming from X-parameters.h, the base addresses of the three IPs and he'll take all those addresses and just initialize the structure.

The structure is here. The structure is there. We generate one instance from that structure and we use it. Now you will see like all other functions, it is going to use this structure as a parameter. So first one on the screen we'll just show big snake and this one again as I said before internally he's using that print string function and he'll just show snake. And the zoom you can see here it is put 20. So it will be quite big and it'll be shown in red color. And it will also do a down counting from 3 to 1, 0 before we start the game you can see on the screen how it works so that is done by this function.

Then we have these variables so this variable basically test what is the current score, this basically says what is the initial size of the snake again remember in hardware when we discussed, I said our snake size can be 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 because we are initializing 5 locations in that big array which is representing the snake. So you can put any number between 1 to 5 there by default it is 3 now and this information is again return to our IP because inside the hardware he needs to know the size of the snake here, the snake size that is done by this function updateSnakeSize, draw frame this is the one which is basically drawing that big square or rectangle you're playing area and this will show when you

Start the game, score 0 on the top right, on the score position which we previously set. Now delay value again this is the value we set in the header file 0.5 that will come here and later that value will be loaded to our event timer so that value will basically come and it will initialize our down counter here. That is what is coming here. Okay, so here again, what is the initial position of the snake that we are calculating in software? We are always keeping the snake at the middle of our screen. I guess maybe better we can change it to the middle of the frame now I am always sitting at the middle and we are finding the H and Y positions and we combine them into a single position and that information we are sending to our hardware.

Why? Because that information is used in the hardware here, start position, it will be coming here and that information will be used for initializing the head as well as these four body parts inside the hardware. Now, as I mentioned we Vocabulary Design” by Vivado, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPF, XS So, every time you call this function the value returned by this function will be always same because it's zero random. So each time you start your game after power off and power on the board your prey will be always at the same starting position.

We don't want that to happen so we need to add more randomness to that. So for that we can use this thing S-Rant, the seed rant what this function does is it will set the seed value for the random number generator. To make it very random, what we are doing is we have this event timer which is always running. Once we start it, it always runs. So here we are starting it. We are just reading the current value from that timer and using it as a seed value for this random number generator. Again there is some non-determinism in software. Because of XR time when it will be read from the hardware will change. So each time you play, the number coming from that event timer will be different.

So this S-band will get a different value each time. So you'll see the position of the prey is different each time you start the game. The game, okay? So we just calculate the X and Y position of the prey and we are just returning it that value here. And this one, okay, we are done. We got the X and Y position of prey but I am not drawing the prey on the screen at this time, okay? I will clarify why we are not doing it. You can do it, okay? So this function is basically drawing a square on the screen in green color at this position.

Even if you add this line, it makes no difference but we are not showing the prayer at this moment. We'll do it later. So here what we're doing is so once we do this much, this is an infinite Y loop. We are entering another Y loop. So this Y loop is the one which keeps the game running. We will come out of this while loop only when game is over, but we are still stuck in this while loop. So you never exit from your program basically unless you power cycle. So once you come out of the while loop, you will restart everything again from the beginning.

You'll see the welcome screen again and we initialize it completely. But this while loop make sure you remain in your code, remain in this loop as long as So, since we already reset the read pointer, when you are reading, the first thing that you are going to get is the position of the first cell which is the head of the snake. We get the head position and from that position it is a 16-bit number, lower 8 bits they represent the X position, upper they represent the Y position. From here onwards everything is in terms of grids not in terms of pixels remember.

Once you get the head position, we draw the head on the screen. So currently we are drawing The head in red color. So we drew the red color head after that, we keep on reading as long Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ILA, ILA-SPF, ILA‐SPF, and that number is somewhere within the body of the snake. If it is within the body, our game won't work. Our prey has to be always outside the snake's body. So what he does is we check whether it is within the body but is done in hardware. How it was done? Remember that is done by this logic.

So while you are reading the snake position segment by segment, this hardware was comparing the position of the prey with the position of this segment. And if they are matching for any position other than the head or any position larger than the size of the snake he will make this bit high and that is what you are reading. You are reading that bit here. and when you see that bit is high, you know like okay the prey is in the size in the body of the snake so it doesn't work. You need to get a new position, you call the same function again and you get a new possession of the prey and you are still not drawing that new position okay because it is possible that new position is also in the body

of the snake so we will see how we will avoid that issue or we will try to avoid that issue. Okay, so we got the new position and we are clearing this bit So it will clear this one when we do that operation it will make this bit equal to zero. Clear pry in body, it will clear that. Next thing we are checking whether the head of the snake hit the body of the snake. That is again done in hardware and press center button. And there is another function, WaitRestart, what this function does, this guy keeps on reading on the GPIO so he's waiting for you to press the center button.

So unless you press the center buttons, this function will not return. You can see it is in an infinite while loop. It's in a while loop, so once you press the Center button, it'll come out of the while loop otherwise you are stuck there. So that's about that game over. Okay so suppose if the snake didn't hit the body, that means you can continue. What you need to do is you need to get the tail position of the snake. Here we are getting the tail position which is the last segment fine where we will use it you will see soon.

Here you are checking whether the snakes swallowed the prey or not. That is done in software, so you can see how it is done. We already know the position of the head from here, we already know the position of the prey from here and if they are matching that means the snake swallowed the prey. So if snakes swallowed the pray what you have to do? You need to add one additional cell to the end of the snake. That is why we took this tail position. So this one is not exactly the tail position, this is one position after the tail.

Okay? Because we had the entire snake in the for loop here. So this is one position after the tail, again coming from hardware, from our big... Vocabulary Design” by Vivado, XSCT, XSct, Zynq, XS We have to find a new position for the prey. So we calculate a new position of the prey, again we increase the score, we update the score on the screen so this will increment the score and it will show on the right corner and this logic checks whether score has reached 10 or 20 water number you set there and if it has reached that value it will change the delay value for the timer.

So if you have set 2, this delay value will become delay value by 2 and that value will go to the timer. Okay so the delay value becomes half means the speed will double. That is what is happening. Now suppose the snake didn't eat the prey. What you need to do? You need to draw a black square on the last segment after the tail. So, when your snake moves, head is moving ahead, head is getting new position and every other cell is getting new positions. You are reading only from head till the tail and displaying it. But because you displayed the snake in the previous position, the tail segment is already white in color.

So when you move the snake, that white square will remain there. So you'll see like the snake is moving, but there's a white trail behind the snake. Okay? So that you will clearly understand only when you see it on the screen. You can just uncomment it and try it out. You will see there is always a trail on the screen from the previous position of the snake. Okay, so for the snake to move you need to update the head position. You need to shift every body segment and wherever was the last segment of the tail in the previous display that position you had to update with a black square in case your screen is black if it is a white mode You have to update that square with white since the snake is black.

Then only you will feel it like that, otherwise you won't feel it. Now this is for a very special case so in our game remember our snake can move under two conditions one is an event from the timer and one is when I press the button to change the direction okay Now it is possible while I am running this for loop, both the events happens. So the timer interrupt came as well as I pressed a button within the time I'm running this while loop. So in that case what happens is the head position will move by two positions.

Also the tail position will also move by two position. So this logic will work only if the tail position is moving by one position. If the snake moves by two positions in one shot, even if you do like this, you will see still there is one white square at the end of the snake, one additional white line, an additional white square. So that Y2 also we need to remove. So this vertex is it reads one more segment from hardware because in hardware we have information about this entire 1600 positions, okay? It will always update all the positions.

So we take one more position since the snake move by two position and we make a black or ILA, ILA, XSCT, ILA-Lite, ILA So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, ILA-SP, XS Interesting thing is you will see there is no real synchronization between software and hardware, right? Your hardware it will move the snake only when there is a timing event or when you press a button. But you will see the software there is there is no event to control it this file loop It keeps on running it never stops It is not waiting for the timing event or it is not waiting for the button press.

Ideally, this should be also event driven. So what should happen is you should do all these things only when I press a button, only when the timer offloads. So this entire thing should go as some interrupt service routine. But why we are not doing it? We are not doing and as I mentioned in the hardware development to make things more efficient. So one thing you remember when we calculate the position of the prey it is a complete pseudo-random number and the only way to know whether that position is within the body of the snake is to compare it with the body positions while you are reading it from the hardware.

So this part, he's the one who is comparing that random number with the snake body position. So only when we do that, we will know whether the prey is within the body of the snake or not. If you're going for a pure software implementation, what you'll do is you'll generate a random either of these logic. But here we can't do it because we don't have the information about all the snake body parts in software that is sitting in hardware, the only time we can do that comparison is when we are reading that body position one by one from the hardware that is happening using this for loop. That's why we are doing this comparison only after this for loop okay.

So suppose if there is a prey in the body of the snake, the only way to replace it is keep on reading the snake position from this hardware. So when I tested it, it seems like in one second this Viluke runs around 400 times, 400-420 times. So you are getting same information 400 times from hardware per second in this implementation but that gives us a chance to recalculate the position of the prey if it is within the body of the snake. So first time we did it, we found the prey is in the body. When the while loop comes back next time, we have the new position, we compare the position again whether it is in the bodies if it is still in the body in the next time when the while loop

comes up at some point of time, we will find a position for the prey which is taught in the body of the snakes but on the screen you won't find any of this because as I mentioned before V SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, XSct, ILA, ILA. Thank you.
