Hello all, welcome back. So next let's try to build one more game on our ZedBoard. So this particular game is called Connect6. This is a modern board game. Okay so the lowest of the game I will explain in next tutorial or you can check out in Wikipedia it's called Connect6 and you can get lot of online implementation software implementation you can try it out it's very USB interface but very difficult to use. So what we will do is we'll make some kind of mouse using our four push buttons, the up down left right push buttons and the center button. So these four push buttons will be used for controlling the direction of the pointer and the middle button

will be used by pressing the left mouse button press. Okay so that's what I am going to discuss in this tutorial how we are going to build this mouse, how to build this game we will discuss in the next tutorial. So I started my coding by taking a new Xilite IP core, user-defined IP core so i'm going to call it ximouse to indicate this is a mouse for z board okay so this interface this is the standard xil interface which you know and we have added these additional signals, the five signals for the buttons left right up down and button press which will connect to the center push button and the interrupt signal. So this interrupt signal is an interesting signal here and we'll be generating an interrupt whenever

our mouse moves or whenever a button pressed. Okay so we have only one interrupt line but there are two conditions under which interrupt is generated, either the mouse is moved or the button is pressed. So based on what kind of interrupt the processor can take the necessary action so that's all in the top file. So under that in this module okay so we are going for better defined style so previously you know we have internal registers here the Xilinx always calls them slave range 0, slave range 1 etc but we are going to modify them to make our design better.

So at the top, I have defined the addresses of the internal registers that we are going to use. So we are going to use actually six registers. They are the control register, interrupt status register, enable register, position register, max count register and max coordinate register. These are the six registers and these are the internal addresses of these registers. So again they are going from 0 to 5, but remember from processor point of view all these addresses should be multiplied by 4 because each of them is 32 bit 4 bytes.

Now what each register does I have written here so control register that is used for soft resetting our IP. So last tutorial we mentioned what is soft reset. So if you want to reset only the part of your IP, you can use this soft reset. So the bit 0 of control register is used as soft reset, other bits are not used. This one interrupt status register. So this register will basically say for what reason one interrupt has been generated. So as I mentioned before, you can have interrupt due to two reasons either the mouse mode or The button pressed. So in either case, the processor will get an intro, but he needs to check exactly what goes the intro. So he will come and read this register. And if the bit 0 it is indicating

intro came because a button has been pressed the center button. And bit 1 it is indicating the interrupt game because the mouse has more. Okay? So that's how the processor understands What goes to the intro and both can happen simultaneously also button is pressed as well as mouse mode that will also generate an intro So depending upon different cases, the register value can be either one two or three Only one of the interrupts happened or both happened. Now this one is the Vocabulary, ILA, ILA-Lite, XSCT, SD card, ILA‐Lite, ILA “ZyMouse, ILA–Lite, set one by the processor. If you want mouse move interrupt, bit one of this register should be set

by the processor if the bits are kept zero there won't be any interrupt generated to the processor he will have to work in polling mode he will have to continuously read this register to find out whether something happened okay now this register this is basically telling what is the current position of the mouse pointer so he will be X and Y coordinates, so the lower 15 bits will tell what is the X coordinate of the pointer and above 16 bits will say what is the Y coordinate of the mouse pointer. So when the processor gets an interrupt he checks what goes to the interrupt, when he finds OK interrupt came because of the mouse mode he should come and read this register to get what is the new

And this register basically tells the IP what is the maximum X and Y coordinate for the model. So, this should be set as the maximum X & Y size of your display so that the point always remains within the display when you connect it to a monitor. Again lower 16 bits the maximum X coordinate and upper 16 bits maximum Y coordinate for our 1080p display, our X coordinates will be 1920 and Y coordinate will be 1080. So that's what at the top we declared then on the standard interface. Then here you can see instead of calling slaveRage 0, slaveRage 1, I have renamed them more logically.

We are calling them control register, interrupt status register, interrupt enable register things like that. And here is the logic for writing to those registers, again I have simplified it from signing standard way of writing it. So again we are comparing the address coming from Xilite address bus if it is same as control register address the write data will go to control register same way for interrupt enable register Max-Count register, Max-Coordinate registers. Okay so these are the registers which the processor can directly write. Now some registers are special case for example, Intrep status register okay? So Intrep status-register will be returned by both IP

as well as the processor. So whenever an Intrep is generated the IP will set the bits here then later processor will read the status register and then he will have to clear the status register so that he gets a new interrupt next time, as we mentioned before. In every case status registers will be returned by the IP then they should be cleared by the processor. So that's why it is written as a separate always block because we have processor as well as IP writing So you can look at the logic here. So this button pulse and mouse move, these are signals coming from the IP. This will be single pulse signal so they will become high only for one clock cycle.

So if this signal becomes high, the bit 0 I am setting to 1 to indicate button has been pressed. This will pulse whenever the mouse moves in any direction or one pulse. In that case bit 1 is again set as 1. So this part is from the IP. Now this part is the access by processor. So again you can see if the processor is writing and if the address is same as interrupt status. Vocabulary, ILA, XSCT, SD card, ILA- So when the processor was reading, the register content was 1 and by the time processor writes back, the register is 3.

Now if the processor wants to clear the status register, he might be writing back 0 to clear the bit 0. But if you directly write 0 to this register, not only bit 0 but bit 1 will also get cleared. So the processor will miss the second interrupt condition. So to avoid that what the processor should do is when he reads from this register, he will get some value. He should write the same value back to clear that register. So if he finds the register content is 1, he should write 1 back. And due to this XOR operation, one XOR with 1 will become 0 so the 0th bit will become 0.

But if the second bit is already set you are basically doing 0 XOR with one because the processor So this is a standard technique used for clearing the interrupt status register. OK, so that's there and all other logic standard. This is where the read logic again I have modified signing code again simple code based on the address processor is providing the corresponding register value is sent to the processor through the Xilite interface. OK, so under that we have these two logics. So this is the first one. OK, so under that we have these two logic. One is called a mouse tracker and one is called a single-pounds debounce logic. So this debounce logic you have seen it before in our snake game.

This is for avoiding debouncing and we are connecting the middle button, the center button here, button press and you can see the logic here. This is the same code which we used in the snake game. So what he does is he will wait for certain amount of time to make sure this is a real button press so we are going to wait for these many clock cycles. So you have to press at least for again 10 millisecond. If you press for 10 millisecond, this signal So this will be the first one, and then we'll pass for single clock only for one clock it will become high.

So this will become high for single clock and that will come here that will get stored in the interim status register. OK so this bit will become 1 now let's see how we are actually generating the interim. Interrupt is generated. So that interrupt status register is ANDed with interrupt enable register. So that's why I said interrupt enable should be written as 1 by the processor, if it is not written as 1 there won't be any interrupt enabled because you are ANDing this so even if there is an interrupt here the AND operation will make it 0. So if interrupt is enabled When you do an AND operation, you will get one.

And this OR operation, I don't know how you've seen it in Videlog before. So if you use an OR operation like this in front of an array, that means it is bitwise OR because this is a 32-bit register. This is a 32 bit register. Then you AND them, you will Get a 32-Bit value, bitwise AND operation. and here you are basically saying all of them. Okay, so what does it mean? If any of the interrupt is high, you will get one here. Okay, so if both So, let's go inside mouse tracker. Inside mouse tracker, first thing is again the logic for avoiding debouncing.

So this debounce. But this debounce is slightly different from the previous debounce. So what happens with the previous debouncy is if you keep a button pressed after that predefined value, the output will become high for a single clock. But here that is not the case. If you keep a button pressed after this predefined value, your output will become high and it will remain high as long as you keep the button pressed. So that's the difference. You can see there is slight difference in the code. In single pulse it is written counter equal to clock on minus one then you make it one otherwise it's zero. This condition will happen only for 1.0, so that's why output remains high only for one clock cycle but here it is returned

counter equal to equal to clock count output equal to 1 and once the counter reaches this maximum value because of this logic the counter will remain at this value which will make the output remain high as long as the counter is at this value so the counter will go back to 0 only when you release the button So only when you release the button, this output will become zero. So that's the difference. That's why this is called a single punch debounce because the output will become high only for one clock. But this is our normal debounce logic.

That means the output will remain high after a predefined amount of time and it will remain high as long as you keep the button pressed. OK, so that's the first logic and all the four push buttons they are going through these four debounces and we get the output. Now that output is given to another logic called the pulse logic and this pulse is similar to our single pulse debuffs. So again the logic will look Similar. So here you can see he is comparing whether counter is some predefined counter max value, and this value, this is not a constant okay so this value is coming from a register at the top which register the register which is controlling the speed at which

As long as its value is less than this maximum value and the button is pressed. It is written else counter equal to 0, that means when the counter reaches the maximum value even if the button is press it will roll back to 0 and again it will start to up count. So because of this condition you will see if you keep on the button pressed. So, this is the first one. So, let's see how it will generate a single pulse after these many clock cycles are elapsed. Okay? So, this constant is not used internally but let it be there.

It came from coffee wasting. Yeah, so he will keep on generating pulses when these many clock cycle have elapsed and how many clock cycles that will be set by the processor, by the programmer. You can set that value. OK? So he will keep on generating those pulses after those many clock seconds. Now, after that, yeah things are quite simple. So you'll see we have four such pulse generator and they are connected to the left right top button buttons after debouncing and these are their output outputs and you can see from the name itself what they will be doing.

So if you keep on pressing the left button, the output from here will indicate that you need to decrement the X coordinate. OK? So after that certain period one pulse will come that is basically telling you need to decrement the x-coordinate by 1. Same way if you are pressing right increment x-coordinates by 1 then up button, increment Y coordinate by 1 and down button, increment y coordinate by 1. So those information is used in this logic, very simple logic. So we have registers here which is basically going to the top module which is basically telling what is the current X and Y position of our mouse.

So whenever we do reset, their values are initialized to the maxx coordinate and maximum y coordinate divided by 2 so that the mouse pointer will be somewhere in the middle of your display. So from where this maxx, maxy will come? That is also coming from the top module where this one, maximum coordinate address. So this register, you can see it is connected to max coordinate register. And from that max coordinate register, it is coming to our mouse tracker, X, X, Y. Okay so when we do reset the X and Y position at the middle of this X and Y, Max and X and Y.

Now after that, when we keep button pressed these increment X, increment Y pulses will And this OINDR, this interrupt signal will be pulsing for one clock. They are becoming high here but here you can see it is written equal to zero always at post such clock so it will become high on the next clock it will become zero. So this will become high only for a single clock. So this interrupt is again ultimately connected to our interrupt status register. So that's the logic. So same way for Y-coordinate. So that's it. So that's all in the hardware.

So we have five push button, four of them for controlling their direction. You pass them through some debounce logic, the output from debounce logic you give to another logic which will generate a single parts after you press for a certain period of clock cycles. How many clock cycles that you can control from the software. Now, whenever those pulses come, you will be incrementing the current X and Y position of the mouse here. And that will be stored in the registers in the top module. You will also generate this interrupt pulse for one clock cycle That will be also stored in the internal register and that will be the handed with the intro of control register and it will be given to the processor

so that he gets the intro, that is the logic for movement. Now for button press you have again a special debounce logic whose output will become one for a single clock cycle after a predefined period of time. That time is fixed, that is fixed for 10 milliseconds for the time being if you want you can change it that you had to do it in hardware, there is no software control. Now that single pulse that is also stored in the interrupt status register. And again, that is AND, AND, OR together. So, I will be getting an intro under that case also.

Okay, so that's all in our IP design. Then I have packaged my IP, then I have built a system using that IP. This one is Ximos. It looks nothing special in system design. It's exactly the same. So, that's why I'm not going to explain in detail. Just add your IP here and you just connect it to the processor through V0 And you should also enable the interrupt here in PS Here, you should enable the interrupt, PS2P interrupt And you connect the interrupt coming from the IP here After that, save your block design, do address assignment and also need to give the constraints, the 5 pin constraints for our 5 buttons and generate bitstream.

Okay so that's all in hardware design. So once bitstream is generated export it to SDK and once you're SDK I have already done. SDK, OK we will write a driver for our mouse and this time we will write very proper mouse so I have already written and kept it in my IP core directory so that's why it automatically came here. So we have this header file, azimos.h and we have the source code here. Now again, good design practice. Instead of using the address offsets directly in your code, declares them all of them at the top so these are the addresses of our six register, control registers, status register same way we did it in hardware but only difference is 32S01234 here it should be

0.4, I12, multiples of 4. Now here these are again constants for Intrep so we will call them Intrep mask. So one means we will be enabling only 0th Intrep which is button press 2 means we enable only motion interrupt 3 means we enable both of them OK? Now this part I will explain later. Now this is the structure which is representing our hardware, so we are storing our base address here in addition to that we are storing two pointers and I don't know have you seen this before these are pointers to functions okay these are pointers to functions actually they are not pointers to variable so what these functions are doing They are our Interrupt Service, they are actually part of our Interrupt service routine. I will show you.

Part of Interrupt service Routine is already written as part of the driver itself. But in addition to that if you want to do something more, you can do it using these additional functions. So we'll call them the callback functions again in our VDMA. You might have seen it. Xilinx, they are also doing the same way. So we have two callback functions which will be called Whenever an Interop Comes. So this one will be called whenever a motion happens and this function will be called, whenever a button press happens. So this is the syntax if you want to declare a pointer to a function. This is the return type of the function, void.

This is the pointer to the function so you need to write star something. Then this is the parameter going to the function. So here I'm saying a pointer, white pointer is going as a parameter to the function, this is one style but for Xilinx you will always see they are using this style. This is also quite similar using typeduff, this much part you can just type and you call it by some name and you say that name followed by this name. Again both are exactly same, okay? So both are pointers to functions. In addition to that, we have function for initializing, we have function so enabling interrupt, function for setting the coordinate, setting that timer which control the speed of mouse and function for starting the mouse,

function for setting up the interrupt controller for the mouse and function and for setting the callback functions. So all those functions are written here, I hope you So, the priority as well as the sensitivity and here we are connecting our IRQ number with the interrupt control interrupt service routine. Now that interrupt service routine I'm calling Mouse handler you can see here and the ISR comes as part of our driver so let's see what is happening here. So what he does is, he reads the status from that status register inside the IP core.

Here you can see he's reading the status register and he's checking whether bit 0 of the status register is set. If bit 0 is set we know it is button press. Interop came because of some button press so he'll print like mouse pressed and he will core, so called the call back function. Okay? That callback function should be written by you. So here at the top, you can see I have a callback function here. This callback function is for button press and this callback function is for mouse motion. Okay? Now the button press callback function, it does nothing but just prints like a callback function called again, Just for testing, we are doing print inside ISR. Otherwise, we will remove it.

And motion callback, what it does is whenever it is called, it will read the address inside the IP where the X and Y coordinates of the mouse are stored. It reads it. And from that, it separates the X and y coordinates and it just prints those values. Okay? So these are the two callback functions. Now, the addresses of these functions should be assigned in the structure which is representing our mouse. Okay? So the addresses of this two functions should be stored here and here. Again, I don't know how you have seen it before but that is a very good feature of C. You can and how members as pointers to function in such structure.

And you can store the pointers to the callback functions there. And here, in the interrupt service routine, you can see we are actually calling those functions using those pointers, okay? So he's getting the interrupt handler as usual he gets a pointer, he just pointed to the structure which is representing the hardware. and from that structure you can see we are accessing Zymouth's instance, press call back. We are basically calling this function using the pointer to the function. Now that function again look at the syntax its return type is void this is the pointer to function that function takes a I will try to explain, okay? So part of the intro handler is in the driver. So he does all those things and this is where he is

clearing the intro status register so you can see the code what he does. So what was that? So, as he got from the Interop status register, he writes exactly that back to our IP so that because of the internal XOR operation those bits gets clear. Okay? So that is what is happening here. And this is a function that sets Zymos callback. You can see it is called here. This is the function which takes these addresses, the addresses of these two functions and assign them to the point S here. Okay? So again this is very interesting thing you can see the name of the function is passed as an argument to another function so what exactly happens is the address of the memory where and the function is stored, is passed here.

So this is a pointer to the function. The name of a function is always the pointer to the functions. So the pointer to a function is passed as an argument to another function here. And you need to look at the syntax here. This is the pointer to structure. This is basically telling what is the handler type because we can have two kind of handler button press handler and button move handler based on that the function coming here should be either assigned to this pointer or this point so that argument helped me to determine what kind of handler I need to assign.

And look at the syntax here, so this is how you can pass a function to another function pointer to a function to anther function. So you need to write return type of that function, so void type. Then a pointer, you can write whatever but you need to put star followed by something. Then the arguments taken by this function, so the argument taken by that function is void star something it's taking a void pointer. So this part should exactly match with the function that we are passing here. So we are passing test move call back, so look at the function here.

Return type is void, this is the function and it takes one argument which is a word pointer. So it should exactly match here void, pointer to the function and the argument taken by that function. So we are taking it and we are checking what is the handler type? So at the top you can see I am passing move handler again they are true constant 0 and 1 just two constants. So, move handler and press handler. For move handler I am passing this one, test move callback, this guy. And for press handler I'm passing this one test pass callback. So this function takes the pointer to those functions and he is storing this one, the address to that function

inside that structure. So whenever an interrupt comes, this interrupt service routine is automatically So, if you provide this callback function your introservice routine won't work because if you don't give them these pointers will be initialized to null. They will have address 0 so he'll try to execute some code from address 0 and nothing works. Okay? So inside callback function as I mentioned before if button is pressed we just print button pressed if button is moved we read the current coordinate from the IP and we indicate that current coordinate.

Now, later when we do that game development, when we press the button, we may really want to do something. We may want to play some stone at some location, that code we will add. Similarly, when we move the button, we may have to display the pointer on the screen, something like that on the monitor, that code we'll add here. So currently we are not using the display or only on the terminal, we'll just print what happened. Okay? So that's it. Now after that, yeah, run configuration, check all of them. I have exported bitstream also, check this one also and keep your teratorm and just run it.

Okay, so when the IP starts some pulses are coming automatically I need to check why it is so. He actually called the ISRS. I didn't press any button but two times mouse move intro scheme that I need to check after that it's fine. Now nothing happens as long as you don't press any buttons. So in the main code you can see once he does all those things he's stuck in and based on that he printed mouse pressed and he also called the callback function corresponding to mouse press which is this function and this function is printing press callback called so that's what you are seeing here so each time you press the center button once this print will come if you press it and hold it, nothing happens because of our logic.

It generates a single point for one button press. Now let me try to press that right button so you can see when I press it and if I press it and hold it lot of interrupts are coming and you can see the status is two and he's printing mouse mode that is coming from here then he's calling the callback function which is this one and it is printing move called by call and he's reading those internal register and he's printing the X and Y coordinate. Now if I keep on pressing the right button you can see after 1920 which is the maximum X value no more interrupts will come because of our logic but if I press the left button now Yeah, it coming. Same for up button and down button also. Okay so that max x and y value

we have set here same as the display value x and y and that information we are writing to our IP here, ZedCoordNet, Xymos. So that's why he is not going beyond The speed at which the pointer will be updated, you can see here that value is this times the clock frequency, which is basically 5 millisecond. That means if I keep pressing more than 5 millisecond he will increment the coordinate. So if you change this value, say 1, that means 1 second, only after pressing it for 1 second, he will increment the coordinate.

So you'll see like the interrupts come less off-off, so I keep it pressed, you can see its increasing only 170 seconds even if I keep pressed. OK, so again this value is stored in that internal distance. So practically when I try it 5 millisecond it looks nice. So that's why let's keep it at 5 millisecond or if you wish you can change it. OK, so that's about software. So I'm putting Everything in git go through it if any doubt you can ask me in the comments but one thing to remember this is the proper way of writing trial okay so here it's written in the proper way and nothing is hard-coded you declare all the constants here and you declare the structure here and you can also use the function for disabling the entry.

To disable the interrupt, what you have to do is you have to write zero to that register which is controlling the interrupt. Right? Interrupt. Control. Enable register. So to this address 8, you just have to write 0 to that corresponding position. Okay. So thank you. So in next tutorial we will use this IP and this driver to develop our Connect 6 game. Bye.
