Hello all, so this is our introductory tutorial on implementation of Canak 6 game on ZedBoard. So initially let me give the rules of the game. So Canak 6 it's a modern board game. It is developed very recently and it's played between two players. One player he will be playing with black pebbles and one player will be playing white pebbles. It is usually played on a 19x19 board like this. You will see only 18 squares are there, but the pebbles are placed on the intersection here so there are 19x19 intersections. There are larger boards also available, but usually it is played on 19x19 and our implementation is also 19x19. So whoever is playing with Black he will start the game. So the first

1st player, no one playing with black, he can play only one level. Now all other moves, all the subsequent moves both players can place two pebbles. So black placed one, next to white he can place two levels anywhere he wants on the board except where black has played. So yeah next again black places two and white places two so on and so forth. So whoever gets 6 pebbles consecutively, he will be the winner. Now it can be column wise or row wise or diagonally in both diagonals. All of them are fine. Whoever gets 6 consecutive pebbles like this, he will the winner.

That's why the name connects 6. Now a lot of algorithms are proposed to play this game very efficiently, so you can search online. A lot of algorithms have proposed by different researchers how this game can be played very efficiently because this is also an NP-complete problem where the next stone should be placed for winning the game. So there is no linear time solution for that. There are a lot of algorithms proposed which can find a solution in linear time, heuristic algorithm. The implementation that I am going to use was developed when I was still a student back in 2011.

This was developed as part of a competition at the International Conference on Field Program Mobile Technology, FPT in 2011. So that's where this was initially written. So I'm going to reuse the code which I wrote in 2011 so most of the part. So the XSCT algorithm that I used that is in this paper. So this will also include it in the GitHub or I will add it or you can download from internet. So the strategy is something called a threat-based implementation. Now of course the third-page implementation of Connect6, that is much more complicated.

But actually for this conference, for this design competition, there was a constraint that it should be a pure hardware implement issue. We should not use any software or the later they changed it anyway. So because of that constraint, this is a much simpler implementation of the third-based implementation of Connect6 because it's a pure hardware based. So the EXAT strategy used, you can read it in this paper how the FPGA finds out at what location next level should be placed. Okay so you can read about it, you can read the actual algorithm used, the system architecture and how it performed things like that.

So the competition was between two FPGA boards, so they connected two boards together to one computer and one board will be playing against another FPGA board. So which board we can use that was also specified at that time? We were using Spartan 3 FPGA because yeah again this is back in 2011. Anyway I'm going to reuse the code that was written for that competition. Now, at that time I was so excited. So I developed the code then I wrote the test bench. Now to really check the performance, I wanted to play against some of my friends who are not into FPGA. So I tried to develop a GUI so that they can easily play it. So they can place their The PUBL is using GUI and that information will be going to the FPGA logic, then FPGA will be

placing histone and that will be shown all quick. So that was done in TCL and that time Zilinx tools, it was Zilinx ISE and there was no simulator built into ISE. So we had to use third party simulator like ModelSim. So I used ModelSim so I will also upload the test bench for it. So you'll see this will be the folder in Git. You will have the source code here, RTL code in Verilog then there is the test bench code and you will also see a folder called sim and this folder will have a file called rungui.do so these do files, the article script which can be executed by model sim simulator So you can download model sim for free from vendor graphics now Siemens from their website and you can freely use it, the student version

and student version is good enough for trying it So what you have to do is, you just take modelSim and you change directory to that Sim folder wherever you have kept that Sim folder And you just type do run GUI.boo Ok so he will compile the Vilo code, he will compile that expansion and he will show the GUI OK, so the GUI is also written in ticker. So here you can choose the color that you wish. So here you actually choose the color for FPGA. You can choose either black or white. So let me choose black. That means FPGA is playing with black.

So he'll start the game and he plays as only one people. And here we are placing inside the square for simplicity because I couldn't do on the edge here on the intersection here. So you'll see there are 19x90, so he plays 1. Now you have to place 2 white pebbles, so you can choose any 2 locations. Then the FPGA will place, see? He plays 2. So he is trying to make 6 pebbles like this, but in next move he can place only 2, so he's still safe. So let's try to attack, so I place 4 there. Ok, so he blocked me here you can see, so that I cannot make 6 and he placed 1 here, so he got 4 So in next move he will win.

So to block him, I'll have to place one here as well as one here. Ok, so we block him but he placed here, so still only 3 So let me block him at one side, maybe here. Let me add one here so I can win also. Okay, so now he has four here, I need to block him. So I'll block one here, I'll add one here. Okay, now he blocked me. I can place one here, still I cannot win. Okay, so why he exactly placed here that you will read in the paper if you wish to read. OK, why he plays here not here that is the strategy that is used but he has four here so I have to block him here as well as here or here both will look let me place here he got four here so let me place here as well

less here okay now he got four like this so let me block here and here okay so he This served the purpose actually, so I could check my logic with other humans whether they can defeat this logic or not. And there were people who could, my roommate he could defeat the FPGA logic in a few instances. Okay, so I will add all these files to git and I encourage you to try this out. So play against the FPGA Logic and check whether you can defeat him. Now when you are playing one thing, you need to... We can quit sim here and run GUI.2 again.

So when you are pressing the button, you need give some time because you know the model sim is also running in the background. The FPGA logic is also running on the background using model sims. Thank you. Vocabulary, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SCT, ILA‐SCT, FPGA should respond within 1 second but actually even 10 millisecond was not required if I remember correctly I need to check what was the actual timing performance. I think 1.66 millisecond was enough to find some move by FPGA Again, that depends upon how complex the board is, what is the current status of the board.

Okay so I guess in this tutorial I will do only this much, the introduction and you can play in the simulator. As I mentioned before please freely download Models. That's also a very good simulator and you just change the directory and run the script and let me know whether you can actually defeat the FPGA logic or not. Now the actual implementation, the adoption of this logic. I'm not going to change anything in hardware. I am going to exactly adopt the same hardware code but going to interface with our PS and we will have provision to play against the SPGA using our Ximones that we developed in the previous tutorial and we'll be seeing the output on our monitor using our video processing

system. That will be in the next tutorial. Thank you.
