Hello all, so in this tutorial we are going to do the hardware design for our Connect6 FPGA implementation. So what I did was I started a new Vivado project and I added all the source codes here which you already know how to do it. So these are all the modules again we have following hierarchical design and this is the main logic which decides like where the next stone should be placed by the FPGA it's pretty complex logic if you wish again you can read it the design is slightly complicated but anyway one thing to notice here is at the topmost we have only five signals here so of course we have clock and reset and these are UART interface

As I mentioned before, the aim was to implement this design in an FPGA, then interface that board with a computer and data communication happens between the computer and the FPGA board But our aim is to have a complete system on ZedBoard We are not planning to interface that board with a computer and play between the computer and ZedBoard That is possible That would have been easier Like if you want to place a new stone You specify where to place it using some serial terminal and you send it to ZedBoard But we don't want that. We want the entire system to be on ZedBoard But I will retain this UART interface Okay, why I am doing it will be clear to you shortly when we go for the entire system design

So this is UART interface. So this is the interface through which we will send the information to this logic where the player plays the stone and this is the same interface through which he will send us the information where he plays the stone. So that happens through this UART interface then this is just a wire which will become high whenever FPGA is playing the game so this we can connect to some LED so SoC, Vivado, ILA, ILA-SCT, ILA FPGA, what color he is supposed to play. So at the beginning of the game if we send the data 4-4 through UART interface to the FPGA that means FPGA is play.

So if you send 4-8 that means the user is playing. So based on that information the logic knows what color he's playing and accordingly he's supposed to play OK, so that's it. So what I'm going to do is I am just converting it into an IP format so that we can do our block design much easier. So you already know so I will just go and choose create IP and I will choose package the current project and location OK, so we keep it here and finish. OK, so this is the name of our IP and you will see these are the interface.

Clock reset, UART interface and this FPGA act. Now this UART that is going to work again at 115200 board rate and the clock frequency that should be 100 MHz for it to work at 115200. So that clock we can directly get from our clock generator. No issues. Okay, so in GUI it will look like this. Like you know. And let's just package the IP. Okay, so that part is done. Now we will build the end-air hardware circuit. So for that I am starting a new project. And our like 6 IPs. Okay, so this is the IP. Now as I mentioned, the communication is through UART but this SoC, UART. I am not planning to connect to external world. This UART.

I want to connect with my processing system. Okay? So that's why I wanted to show you something. That's why I'm keeping it as the UART interface. Now, you know our PS, it has UART interface, it actually has two UART interfaces. And one of those UART interfaces is connected to the external world which we are finally CAN, UART etc. There are so many and you will see a tick sign near some of them that means only these interfaces are enabled as of now. So only UART 1 is enabled, UART 0 is disabled okay? Now the problem is if you want to connect all these interfaces at the same time with the external world you need a lot of Pins, and to keep the size of the FPGA chip smaller, the number of pins provided is lesser.

So what linings they have done is they have introduced a big multiplexer here you can see and all these signals are connected to this multiplexer. The output of the multiplexer there are 54 pins signals coming from the output of this multiplexers. They are connected to Pre-fixed pins. Those pins you cannot change, okay? So there are 54 pins coming from here, they're connected to 54 pins, they are not reconfurable, they are fixed forever, but you can choose which interface from here should be connected to which pin on this external interface that is done using this multiplexer. So you can enable only the required peripherals and you can configure this multiplexer to connect them to the required external pin.

Okay, so that's what they are doing. Now in addition to that there is a provision to connect these interfaces to the PL part also. So you'll see a green line going from here to here. So that is what is called extended multiplexed input output. Okay again remember this is coming So, whatever is coming from this point it is not coming from the output of the multiplexer because that will have some implications. So whatever is coming here you can directly connect to the PL part also. For example I need one UART interface to interface with my computer and one UART to interface with my Connect6 Logic.

So what I can do is, I can enable this second UART interface, UART 0. And here you can choose where that signal coming from the UART should be connected, okay? From this UART core. You can either connect them to the external world like this so whichever pins are free he is listing here or you can just choose to connect it to EMIO. So once you choose it, you will see what is going to happen. So here you'll see ATX and RX. They are the UART interface, they're coming out of the PS, and now you can connect it to any logic within PS.

If you wish again from here, you can make it external world and connect to external pins also. That's also possible because some cases we want to do something like that. For example, I have a 5 chip connected to some pins and those pins are in the PL part. Now I want to connect this Ethernet controller to that file. So what you will do? This file you will connect to EMIO then through PL you will connect those signals to the pin And from there to the 5 chip so that's how you can do it. But as I mentioned before, you cannot do anything here. That's why the Ethernet 0 here, it is already connected to this multiplexer and this output is already connected

to an Ethernet 5. Now there is no option to take the output from that 5 to connect to my PN. OK? Because I cannot take connections from here, I can take connection only from here. If I could have taken connection from here, that is the network-on-chip So if you come here, the default portrait. Of course, you can change it using software. So if you've come to PSPL configuration under general, you can see the portrait for the UART. So both UART by default they are working at 115200. If you want, you can't change the default rate.

But the UART interface for Connect6, that's also working at 115 200. So we don't know how to modify it. So keep it at 115200 and just connect the TX with RX here and RX with TX here. And this we can connect to external world so that we can connect some LED. So make external, okay now this clock and reset we will connect because as I mentioned before they need 100 megahertz and we have 100 MHz coming from here, but we have to connect our VDMA system also which needs 148.5 MHz so we of course need a clock manager and like before we need two clocks so clock one we will keep it at 148.5 for video system and this one we'll keep it at 100 MHz and we'll remove this reset signal so now we have the clock

Now let's bring our mouse also because we need a mouse to play our game So, we already have our xymouse developed in our previous tutorial Ok, so here we can quickly run some connection automation for our xymous Xilinx, XSCT, XSct, XS Zynq interrupt from the mouse, so we have to enable the interrupt. So, interrupt enabled, we will have two interrupts, one interrupt is coming from our video system, one interrupt from the Mouse, so we need concat IP to combine them and let's connect one interrupt here and the second interrupt we will add.

OK, so that's all for now. Now the connect 6 clock is also 100 MHz clock, so clock out. Now the reset signal if you directly connected to the reset here, The problem is you can play your game only once after programming the FPGA. For the logic to restart, you have to apply a reset. So there should be some way to reset the IP from the software So that once the game is over, I can restart it from software itself. I don't have to reprogram the FPGA or something like that. So the easiest way to do it is through our GPIO IP so that you can write something to that GPIO and output from that GPIO we can easily connect here and using that we can...

SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, Zynx, ZynX, ZSCT, ILA, ILA-SP, ILA. processor can write one here and that one will come here and it will reset our Connect 6. So once game is over, once FPGA or the player wins he can reset the IP and restart the game. And we can connect all these things from our mouse to external one and only thing remaining is the connection with the video system. So it's exactly same as our previous tutorials, so I'm not going to show it here. We'll come back once I include all those IPs. Our VDMA IP, our timing control IP and the multiplexer and XSCT to video out. Okay? So we'll see after OK, so I have completed the design. As I mentioned before, I have added the video stream, video

out IP, timing control as well as our VDMA and just connected the output from VDMA to this IP and connected the intro. And the clock signal for all these IPs, they are coming from The first output from our clocking result, which is 148.5 MHz. So that's all in hardware design. So only addition is we added the mouse and we added the Connect6. The new thing that we learned is using the EMIO signals from PS to PL so that you can control peripherals in PS through these interfaces coming from PL. Okay, so once it is done, you check the design for any error and also make sure all addresses are assigned by clicking here and also need to give the pin constraints So I have already given so our standard pin constraints for the VGA interface

in addition to that these are the pin constraints for our mouse The 5 pins to the 5 push buttons and this is the FPGA AX signal which is coming from our Connect 6 logic which will blink whenever FPGA is doing something, this signal. Okay so that's also connected to an LED, that's it. Okay these are for debugging which I used we can remove. OK, so that's it. So once this much is done you can go ahead and generate the bitstream. Now software I will discuss in next tutorial. Thank you.
