Hello all welcome back so in this tutorial will be quickly looking at the software development for the Connect6 game. So most of the things here we have already discussed for our snake game. So I'll be only discussing about the extra thing that we should be careful when we designing this game. So I have already written the software everything, so again this is modularized there are multiple source codes and header files so you can see here. Many of them we have already seen, so we have this phone.h which has the bitmap for all the characters, then we have this video.h and video.c for our VDMA controller and our graphics.h and graphics.c for low-level drawing, drawing the frame, printing the character, printing the string things like that.

Then we also have the Xymos, so that is not appearing here because the source code for Xymos is made part of the driver for the Xymo IP. So it will be directly coming under the BSP. If you press F3 he will open it. So it's not here but it is a part of the BSP now and we have all the functions that we discussed in the previous tutorial. Now there is this top file, Game.top.c which is the topmost file which controls the overall game then we have this connect 6.h and connect 6.c and this is the header file and the source code which has the function specific to connect 6 again we have functions to show the welcome string, we have function to clear the board when we are finished playing and there

are functions which enable FPGA to play then user to play things like that. There also function to check whether game is over so anytime game is over he will he will detect it and he will show it you and there are other functions like he will make sure a placement is a valid that means suppose FPGA has and you can place some stone on top of it. This will make sure you are not doing such kind of things but other utility functions here. Now, first thing to remember is in this particular case we are using two UART interfaces. Actually you need only one UART interface because we'll be displaying all the messages everything on our monitor, but still during debugging In debugging, you may need our normal UART to see what is going on.

As I mentioned, especially for debugging purpose or if you want to see these kind of messages, like if the interrupt controller fails or things like that. For seeing that we will still need our UART controller. So we'll be having two UART interfaces. One is coming from the Zynq chip to our computer through the external UART interface 1 UART interface is between the PS and PL of the Zynq chip through the EMIO interface Now, previously we didn't have this case. We had only one UART interface and that UART interface is UART1. So if you go to our MIO configuration there are two UARTs. We have UART0 and UART1 and usually only UART1 is enabled. This is the one connected to the external network. This

time we enabled UART0 also, which is connected to the PL part. So wherever you have this Zilprint off, you need to tell the software which UART interface should be used for doing this standard input output. So you have a printoff, Zilprintoff or Scanoff, which UART should be used So, previously we had only one UART interface, so by default he will always use UART1, but since now we enabled UART0, by default when you come to SDK, UART0 will be enabled for all the standard input output. So if you do a print like this, this information will be going to the PL, that's not what we need, this information should be coming to our serial terminal, the terminal.

So what you need to do is, you should go to this VSP once you start the project and go to the VSP settings. And there under standalone, there's an option which interface is the STD in and STD out. So it might be UART 0 and you should change it to UART 1. and all other previous projects, by default it will be UART1 because only that. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, ILA, XS and those functions will be called either when the mouse moves or whenever you press a mouse button. Okay, so for this particular game what I need is whenever I move the mouse I need to see a pointer on the screen that is one thing and whenever I press the mouse button, if it is the user playing, you should be placing a

stone on the board. So that's what we need. So in the previous Ximos video, we just had some dummy callback function which does nothing, just prints like callback call but here we have proper callback functions so here you can see press callback this function will I need to show a pointer at that location. I have drawn a small pointer in the software that I showed you before, this glcd on Creator. That bitmap corresponding to pointer is called glcd. I will show you how to draw a point at that location and that bitmap corresponding to pointer I have stored as bitmap for space or empty.

Okay, so in this case if I try to print anything as a space empty he'll be actually showing a pointer kind of thing okay so that's one shortcut I could have put it some other location but still this is good enough actually so that is So here is one thing, so he will show a pointer at that location. That's what he is going to do. Now here there is the problem. So when you press the button, you should feel like the pointer is moving. Okay? So what we need to do is when the pointer moves, We need to replace the previous data at the current location of the pointer And display the pointer at the next location.

So that is what is done here actually. So this read grid data, what happens is he will read the current data from your frame buffer, from your video buffer which is supposed to be sitting behind the pointer and he will internally store it. Okay so this function that is sitting here and that is actually you can see it is reading The data from the video frame and he is storing that information. Where's that information stored? That information is actually stored in this location called grid data. So here you can see something called this my pointer, that is actually structured. So the pointer which we are showing, Vocabulary, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-FPGA, ILA‐FPGA,

Again that stone is nothing but letter O from our phone.h, again so I have changed the bitmap for letter O here, this was the original one, I replaced it with this one, so it will look like a field O which looks like a stone. So again I can control the color when I am displaying it on the screen, so I can use So we need to give some time for the game to start. And this is basically to reset the Connect6 IP. So in the block design, remember, we don't have any direct AXI interface of our Connect6 IP so in order to reset the IP what we did was we took a GPIO IP and output from that GPIO is connected to the reset of our connector. So that is what is exploited here.

You are writing 1 to that GPIO IP, then you're writing 0 to that GPIOIP. So it's like you asserted the reset, then you remove the reset. There will be some time physically between each function code so he will get sufficient type. Then okay this function, it will clear the board and he will draw the table in orange color. Corebab function is explicitly called once here. Now later, this function will be called only by the ISL4 Ximos. This variable is basically saying first move. So the next move is the first move that is required because whoever is playing first, he can play only one stone and all the subsequent moves there'll be two stones.

That's why this one. So this YLU then we actually enter this YLUS. So we will come out of this second while loop only when one of the players win, either FPGA or the user. Only in that case it will come out off this while loop then we will wait for some time and we reinitialize everything and just restart again. OK? So that is what is happening here. So here we have the function, this is the function which is used for FPGA playing and this is the use of playing so here we are just checking who is So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, ILA- SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynx, XS So, if that returns true, that means FPGA1.

So similarly we have this userplay and you can see there also we are checking whether user has one or not. So userplay here you are checking whether the user won. Now this variable is not set here. This variable is set under button press call back. OK, so whenever you place a stone we will immediately check whether you have one or not. So if you have one he is setting this global variable and that will be detected by this function and it will basically return 1 if you have 1, OK? Yeah, because that is a callback function so that is not explicitly called from here, It is called from the ISR, so that's why that function cannot return some value directly here.

We are using a global variable for communication between that callback function and this function. So this function will be called, and he is waiting for you to press the button. He's waiting until you are pressing twice in normal scenario, but if it is your first move, he is waiting only for one press. So as soon as press 1, he will return. In this case, he is not checking whether you won or not because it's impossible you are the guy who is playing first and you can't win when you're starting the game. Right? So that's why he's not checking whether if you want to start the game.

In all other cases, he's waiting for you to press the mouse twice and as soon as you press it twice, he will check whether you won or not. If you won the game, he will return one here and on the screen he'll show like you won. Okay so that's it again SoC code I have put. You can I will show the video where I am playing and you can quickly see what is going. So when you start the game, you'll see this welcome screen connect 6 and you'll notice like instead of O it looks like a stone here, I replaced the bitmap for O with a stone kind of thing, so that's why it is coming like that.

So then there will be this countdown and after that he will display the playing area, the 19x19 grid and you can see the mouse pointer, he will always show the mouse pointer at the beginning at the center of your screen because that's how Ximos is configured. This initial position will be always the center of your script. And we are calling that callback function explicitly, that's why the pointer you can see here. On the right he will show who is supposed to play next and then you'll notice instead of space it is showing a pointer here.

Same reason in the bitmap I have replaced space with a pointer so that's what you're seeing like that. So when you start the game, the first chance will be always to the user, to you. So you'll be playing with black. You are supposed to play only one stone. Now in order to place a stone again he'll be going to place at the junction so to make life easier what you can do is you can place the pointer inside any square here and you can press that middle button on the board. I placed only one because I- So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, UART, ILA, ILA-SPFIFO, ILA.

So I am blocking him, so he again got 4 consecutively, again I am trying to block, but I guess he's going to win already. So you can see on top right side here, we will say like FPGA run and the game will restart and in that case FPGA will start the game, so he already plays the black one and we are playing with white and each time we have to place two white stones and it goes on. So next time the first chance will be to the user. So in and so forth. Okay, so I hope you can also try this out. Okay? Thank you.
