Hello all, so in some of the previous tutorial we have already done some image processing and we are going to do more image processing and will be using images for other applications also. So one challenge that we are going face is again converting this image data to a format which can be used for simulation and testing it on hardware. OK, so previously we have done it. I have used a BMP image and I have shown you how you can convert this BMP image into some header file format so that we can use it with our SDK. That was one technique that we used.

Now we cannot always use the BMP image for these purpose. So we'll have all different kind of image format maybe. You have BMP, we have TIFF images, we have JPEG, different formats. So there should be some way to convert this image data into some format so that we can directly use it for simulation. Okay, so as an example here I have already written a code for RGB to grayscale conversion so I hope you know what it is. So I have RGB data coming here through an AXI stream interface and each color component is 8-bit wide, so that's why we have 24 total. RGB R is the LS byte and G is the middle byte and B is the upper byte. The output is only one byte, the grayscale equivalent again it's

going as an XSCT stream interface okay and this is the approximate conversion from RGB to grayscale. So this style we have already seen before now what I'm interested is to simulate and check whether my code is really working. For that I have written a test bench, so the test bench he's basically reading from some file. So here you can see like he's reading three bytes, RGB values and he's just injecting that information to my IP and whenever Tata comes out of my IP which is the grayscale image that I'm going to write to another file, one byte at a time.

So remember this input is 24 bit, output is only 8 bit and once I receive enough data so I know what is the image size and all I am taking 512 by 512 image and it's RGB so total these many bytes are there. So once I finish getting the entire data, I will stop my simulation. This header information is not done. Now the question is how can I get this input file for simulation? So again, this is my input image. My assumption is it is a binary file where data is stored in RGB order. Similarly, this is my output file where the grayscale values are there and there should be some way for me to see this file in image format also after simulation to check whether it really works or not.

So what I really have is this file so I have a color image of Lena. This is 512x512 RGB image and it is an TIFF format. So this is again a different image format but again image is stored in uncompressed format so you can directly go and see what is the content there. So if I open it in my hex editor, so in TIFF first 8 bytes they are the header part then we have the RGB part. So this is my first R, then G, then B. And here, the first pixel is the top left corner one. In BMP it was the bottom left one. In TIFF it is top left one.

So I can see my image here. Now if it is a TIFF image actually you can remove this header and save it in your file and you can use it for simulation. But suppose it is a JFAC image, you won't be able to do it because the image is already in compress format so you cannot directly use it for simulation. So we'll have to use maybe MATLAB to get uncompressed format and using MATLAB we have to write it to a binary file. So it's very straightforward you can just redo an IMREAD something equal to your file name, and now you have already read the data so you can see like VITAL, VITAL3. That is the image data and if you check the Zilwort element from this you will see the first fixer right?

If I do like I1 1 1 so MATLAB it starts from index one actually I'd saying 226 which is actually E2, right? Yeah. So let's see, XE2 is 226 and second element if we do 112 you get 137 which is 8.9 in hex and so on and so forth. So it doesn't matter what is the image format MATLAB He will always show you the bottom, the top left pixel first, that also R value first then G, then B in that order. So it doesn't matter whether it is VMP, TIFF or JPG. So we can use this property to generate the file for simulation. Okay so now you have TIFF image if you want to write it to a binary file after removing the header everything It's very straightforward, you can open like, okay so let's call like out file equal to FOPIN,

Let's call my file dot min and we are saying it opened in write mode. FOPIN okay now So we can just write F right out file and I want to store this image data there. Okay, so he has already done it. So if we go and see here, we need to close the file also. F close out file so that he updates it. OK, here updated and if you open it here, you can see it's a binary file. But the problem is here look at the image data it is A2E28970 that is the first pixel but here you won't see it like that you'll just see an E2 here then it is again E2 so what MATLAB does is he first stores all the R So, if it is a 512x512 image first he will store 512x512 values of R component then he will store 512x512 value of G component then 512x512

values of B component. So MATLAB they are doing it like that because again this is a general way of storing matrices so storing like this maybe is giving set of advantages as far as MATLAB is concerned. But our problem is we cannot directly use it for simulation now, okay? Because we are expecting RGB but all these are just R value and again he is storing it column-wise so what I mean is this E2 corresponds to this pixel top left, this E2 correspond to The first pixel in the second line and this one, first pixel in third line so on and so forth.

So he is storing like that, that also he stores all the R values first then G values, then B values. That's how he is going to store it. So we cannot directly use it for simulation. So what I have done is I have written some small script. So I will put it in Git you can So this is that script, save image binary. Ok so what you have to do is, you just have to give the size of the image here, and here you have to say whether it is RGB or grayscale image. Because we can use the same script for RGB as well as grayscale.

RGB, as well as Grayscale. So if it is RGB you put numcolor as 3, if it is a Grayscale image you put num color as just 1. So you just take script and give the name of the input file here doesn't matter any format, TIF or BMP or JPG, PNG any format. You just take this one and you just run it. So, it will generate this output file. So here it is called LANA-CALLER.BIM, OK, so we have the Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-Lite, XSCT, SD card, ILA‐Lite, ILA–Lite, So I have put it there, now let me run the simulation, ok run simulation and let me run it.

So here the output from simulation is called Lena-Gray.bin. So again in this binary image we are storing data row-wise so the top left this will be first 2 pixel, this will be second pixel row-wise. But for MATLAB if you want to read this binary image and display it on the screen he is expecting data to be vertical column-wise. So we again need a script which converts this output file into the expected format of MATLAB so that you So, if you want to check whether the output is correct or not. So, using any other image just change the name of the file here, change the resolution here whatever it is and if it is RGB to grayscale you will still have one here. If the output is also RGB you should put three there. And once you change it

and if you put it here, you will see the output properly. Okay? So this is the output coming after RGB to gr Vitis is the output coming after RGB to JSCALE conversion. So the conversion is done in hardware, okay? But we are going to use Mathlab for view it. So if you're using OpenCV again, the idea is similar, the code will be more or less exactly same only the syntax will be changing and you can use the same script more or less similar script for doing it. OK, so I hope these scripts will be useful for our future tutorials, so keep it hand. Thank you.
