Hello all, so in the previous tutorial we have seen different ways of transferring data from your computer to our board. We used the UART interface in one way and in another case for image processing we converted our image into some header format and included it in our software. Again both have its own advantages as well as disadvantages. So today I'm going to show you another way of transferring data using so called XSCT, Signing Software Command Line Tool. Now this also has certain advantages. This is quite fast actually compared to your UART interface and it's much flexible compared to adding it into the header file but the disadvantage is this is very useful during debugging

But when you are distributing your system to some other people, if they want to use it, They will have to install Xilinx SDK in their system which may not be always possible. So long term, the feasible solution for data transfer is either through Ethernet interface Or reading it from the SD card. Okay so we will eventually reach there but it is good to know like this technique also. XSCT. Now, XSCT it can be used for a lot of purpose not only for data transfer you can do complete what you call programming debugging everything using XSCT now I'm not going to show everything in this tutorial maybe in a future tutorial we will explore more details of XSCT now to demonstrate it i have already built a system here this system is more or less same

hardware, first it will convert it into gray scale using this IP which we discussed in the previous tutorial. Now I have added one more IP here again I will share the source code with you. This IP is used for changing the size of an image. So the output from RGB to gray is directly fed into this IP and the output from this IP goes back to the DMA controller which will eventually go back to the system memory okay so from system memory DMA controller, it will transfer the image to our RGB2Gray color image. He will convert it into griscade then it goes to this image size converter for rescaling and it finally goes back to the system memory so our aim is to transfer the image the system memory as well

as retrieve the process image from the system memory using XSCT. Now this image size convert IP is a very simple logic, again I will share the source code. So basically it gets an image data through an AXI-Stream interface and if you specify the image size, the width and depth as well as a scaling factor he will rescale your image. If you put the scaling factor as 2 for width, the output image will be half of the input image. Same for depth. You can change the width and depth separately. Now, you cannot get any width and depth.

Again that is a drawback. You will have to divide the width and the depth with an integer. So that factor, that's what you are specifying here in width scale and depth scale. So if you put width and depth scale as 1, output mesh will be same as input image. If you put it as 2, output image width and depth will be half of the input image like that. So you can put 2, 3, 4 whatever value you want. Maybe in future this will be very useful if you are going for CNN implementations and all. Normally you will have to rescale your image before you apply the neural network.

So this IP will be useful in future. So the code you can check out, it's very simple actually, just use us two counters to get the things done. Okay, now to specify the image width depth these things, they will be coming from some of the registers. So this is the core logic of the IP, then I have wrapped it into AXI interface using our standard user-defined IP because the standard way of developing your AXI-Lite slave interface. And I have wrapped it so that I can configure the registers, so you can see like the width and depth they are specified using slave register 0.1 and the scaling factors they are SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, ILA, ILA.

So that's it, so that's about hardware development. So you implement it again I have the script file in git you can regenerate the system from the TCL script and once you have done it you can Export it to software and you can launch the SDK So this is our software code So at the top I have configured the width and height of the image that we are going to transfer. We are going to translate the color image of Lena, this one, which is a 512x512 color image. Now I am going to convert it into the binary format that we discussed using MATLAB using our script.

So now it is in binary format. We already have that file and this is the one we are going Our important things come. Okay, so as I mentioned before we are going to use XSCT for transferring the image from your computer to the board. Now XSCT that also communicates with the board through the JTAG interface it's going to use JTAG interface itself. So in SDK you can see it is here XSCT now this comes as a There is a separate tool also, when you install Xilinx software, you might have noticed there are Xilinx command line tools also.

This one, command line, so this is basically XSCT. So you can run it from here also without going through SDK at all. That I will show in the next tutorial. So for this tutorial let's take our XSCT from here itself. OK, so we have the XSCT here. Now using XSCT you can transfer data to any location in the DDA, on the onboard DDA. Now for doing that transfer you need to specify the starting address of the DDA to which you want to transfer the data as well as how much data you want to transfer. How much data I want to transfer?

I know my image size which is 512x512x3 that is my total data transfer size Now where should I transfer the data? That depends, okay. Some people they hardcode it in their code which may not be a good idea because you don't know whether that address will be used by some other part of your software So good thing is like let the system do the memory allocation for storing these images and all and you transfer data to that location. So, that is what this is doing. So when I run my software, he will come and tell me what is the starting address of this array.

And transfer the data to the system. After that on the serial terminal I will press enter or any key so that my software goes forward and here you can see this is DMA transfer, so this part is for transferring from my IP core to the system memory and this part is transferring from system memory IAP, OK? You can write it in any order here. It will work. And here I'm waiting for that transfer to complete again as I mentioned before we are using the boarding method here like our first tutorial you can use ISR, Interfacer Resource also because now you know it and finally you'll say like DMA transfer success once the DMA operation is completed so once I know DMA

I will read back from my board DDA memory to my computer again using XSCT through the JTAG interface. Now, to read it back I need to know where the processed image is sitting okay so that information also I know because I have already printed the starting address where that output image is and I also know the size of the processed image. It is 256 times 256 because I have scaled it by 2, okay? And its gray scale so it is 256 by 256. Okay, so let's go ahead and execute it then just things will be clear. Okay and run configuration again as usual check all of them you configure your bitstream here and you configure the ELF file here once you compiled it and also keep our teratorm. Once the board is powered up,

configure it and let's run it. Okay yeah now you will see like in XSCT a lot of prints are automatically coming okay so this is where the FPGA is getting programmed this is where your software is. ELF file is entered about you can see everything happening here and you can see The processor is already running. This part I will explain in next tutorial. Now when it is running, you can already see the print here. Input image buffer address 130320. This is in hex actually that is coming from here and output image starting address is 120320. Now he is waiting for me to press any key to continue because of this scan. So what I will do is now I will transfer my image to the board using

this FPGA interface. So maybe first let's change directory and go to the folder where I have my image so i'm going to use this bin image which we generated in last tutorial using MATLAB and Lenna underscore color dot min, so Lenna underscore Color dot min followed by the starting memory address that you want stored which is this one that is in hex again the zero hex. You don't have to specify the size because this is a file he automatically finds out what is the size he wants to transfer and now you can see like he's actually transferring to Z So he transferred your image to the DDR memory of the board starting from this address.

Okay, now to check whether it... So, I have a print statement which is basically printing first 12 bytes from this memory location. So image is really transferred. I should be able to see some image data here. Okay so let's try it. Okay so let me run it. So I can see E2, 8.70, E2. Now if I compare it with the image data, this is the image data. E28970E2, E28970, E28990E2, DMA, XSCT, ILA, ILA-TensorFlow, ILA memory read, similarly there is a command called MWR also in XSCT if you want to write something to the system memory some data okay or DAO is an easier command if it is just a file it is easier to use DAO command rather than memory write command. Okay, I fund size B okay so here you are saying you want to transfer some

and then you can specify the data from system memory to your computer and the size of that data you are going to specify in number of bytes. Then you say hyphen bin saying you want to read it as a binary file, then you need to specify the name of the file where that should be kept after reading it followed by the starting address in the system memory from where it should be read, which is this one. Again in hex here, we need to write 0x. And finally how much data you want to transfer. So again as I mentioned, my processed image is only 256 times 256, which is 656, so 65536.

Okay, finished. It's very fast. So he read that much data from the system memory and he might have already created this You can transfer any binary file by following this. And you can also write any data to any memory location using memory-write commands. So you can go and check Xilinx's XSCT commands, and you will see a lot of commands are there actually which are very useful. So some more comments which are more commonly used I will discuss in next tutorial. Thank you.
