Hello all, so in this tutorial we are going to discuss few more useful commands of XSCT. So I am taking the same example from previous tutorial. So in some cases people they will be distributing their system using only their bitstream as well as the ELF file, only the file for programming the hardware part and software executable. So you will have only this bit file which is for programming the hardware part and this ELF file which is programming the processor. In addition to that, you usually get this file also, ps7.init.tcl file also.

So we'll see if you have access to only these three files how to program your board. So similar thing I have shown before also you can do this using SDK also directly. Now in the background actually SDK is running the XSCT so in this tutorial it will be clear how it all happens. So XSCT this time I am going to take the standalone one, so if you go to your Xilinx installation You will have this Xilinx software command line tools. So you take it and let me change directly where my code is sitting. Okay, so my board is already connected.

My computer is powered up. Both cables are connected for JATAC as well as UART. So I have my UART interface here. OK, so the first thing you need to do is to connect so called Xilinx server program with your JETA code. So the first command that will be issuing is called Connect. This will basically connect your computer with JETA Code and the output will look something like that. After that one useful command is called Targets. So if you type targets, you will list all the devices which are connected on this JTAG chain.

So you can see like I have the APU, which is basically the top module for the two Cortex N-ion processors. So I have both processors here as well as the FPGA fabric. So they are all sitting on my JTAG chain so I can see it. You can also see the status of the processes. They are currently in the running state, so they can be either in running state or they can be in suspended state or they can be in stop state. So different states are possible. Okay next step we can download our FPGA bitstream. So we have a bitstream here so you just take it and the software part.

You create, now he is programming the board you can see the progress center and he has finished. Now if you look at the board the blue LED will glow indicating he successfully programmed the DUN signal goes up. Okay so once you have done the hardware part so that's it about hardware programming we can go to the software part so the first thing you need to do is you need to choose which is your target processor core for running your software. So you have two processors here, you need to choose one of them. So for that you need to type target followed by the target number so you can see the numbers here 1 2 3 4. Suppose I am using this processor core you have to type target2 okay so we have chosen that processor as our

After that you need to run this TCL script. So, this TCL actually comes from our SDK itself. So if I go to my SDK directory and if you go to the hardware platform, that is where you have this TCL Script, this one, ES7-Init.TCL. There's an equivalent C code also but for XSCT you will have to use the TCL script, OK, so it's coming from here. If other people are distributing or you are distributing your code to other people without anything other than VIT-Stream and ELA file, you are supposed to distribute this TCL script also. So that script basically has again XSCT commands for initializing different part of So, you take it and first you need to source it.

So you type source S7 underscore init.gl after that you need to run some of the functions inside this ticker. So those functions we are actually familiar. Okay? So if you go to our run configuration, if you remember, we used to check these options PS7-INIT and PS7-PostConfig. And before that there is this program FPGA, so when this command is running, program FPGA actually XSCT is running the same command FPGA this command that we used. Same way we need to run these two commands PS7-Init and PS7 PostConfig. So this PS7- INIT will be again initializing the internal blocks of the PS, especially he will initialize the DDR controller, he will initialize MIO part things like that. So that we can see here PS7 underscore init.

So this is the function, XnTicular actually. So he is internally initializing the MIO, the PLL, The DDR controller will be under reset condition and you will not be able to download your ELF file. After sourcing this, you need to give PS7 underscore init. After that, you need the same command PS7 postconfig. So what it does is, it will enable some of the circuits, the barrel shifters inside the PS Which will enable sending the clock from PS to the PL Okay, so if you have a hardware part in your design, you should run this function also, this command also So here you will type PS7 postcard here. If you don't run it, your hardware will not get clogged. Hardware in the middle part he won't get clogged. Once that is all said and now we

are ready to download our ELF file, the software file. So this is our software XSCT test.elf. So the command for downloading ELF is simply DOW XSCT underscore S.ELF Now you can see like he has downloaded the ELF file and he should say like successfully download it and your processor is suspended so he downloads the ELF but he doesn't start to execute it ok, so the processor will be in suspended state and if you look at the At runtime you will see like nothing happens there. Okay, so for the ELF to run, you need to issue the command CON, continue.

So the stop command is used for stopping the processor. He's saying like already stopped. Now make the processor run, you'll need to issue that command CON. Now if you just issue CON, he will start executing from the current program counter. But ideally or always your program will be starting from the first address in DDR. So the first address is again remember is this one. This is the first address. So your program should start running from here. So for that you need to type continue 3DAR0X followed by its first address which is 00112345.

And let's see what actually happens, let me turn out from here and we'll see this print come. Okay so that print is coming from our program remember this is that print and that is coming because now our processor is running. Okay, so after this it's same as previous tutorial we are supposed to download our image file so that command is again DAO but you need the flag data here. If you don't put data that means you're downloading the ELF file. Okay? So DAO data followed by most of the file and SoC, Vivado, ILA, XSCT, XSct, XSCT Part 2.

SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSect, XSCT. SoC, Vivado, XS Need to start reading from this address, 120, 320 and we need to read 655, forgot, it was a 256, 9256, 65536. Okay, so here is that file. Now same as before if we run our script in Mathlab, view image this script, we able to see the output. This is expected output. So those are some of the useful commands. So basically connect target, DAW, memory read, memory write, FPGA, stop, continue etc. Now we use tower XSCT in interactive mode right? So, you are writing one command at a time and you are looking at the output things like that.

Instead of that it is possible to write all these commands in a single script file with extension ticker okay for example here I have a lot of commands written more or less same commands that we used and we will be able to execute all these commands in one shot so to do it first of all you need to configure your environment and then you can use the environment variable to include the path to XSCT, XSCT is actually sitting in your Xilinx installation directory under SDK and whatever version you are using under bin. OK, so this is where XSCT is sitting. So if it is Windows in your environment variable under path environment variable you include this path also in Linux you export this path to your

environment variable. So if you do like that you will be able to run the script directly without this interactive mode. Let me quickly show it. So, let me show you my script. Okay so first one is Kannak, I know like always I am using first processor core, so this one so I'm programming my FPGA here, so that bit file I need to keep in the same folder, this one. After that I am initializing PS7, post-config and downloading my ELF. Here there is some difference. So I don't want this interactive thing, I don't me to see this address on the terminal, then download, then press enter here.

I need to happen everything in one shot. For that what I am doing is you can see this is another useful command stands for Breakpoint Add. So he will download the ELF and he will add a breakpoint at the main function. So he adds a breakpoint here, main function. And here I'm asking him to continue execution until he finds this breakpoint. So when he reaches at this breakpoint the program execution will stop automatically and I am downloading the image file here you can see and this address is a different address. So what I did is, in my original software, I commented out this scanf so that he doesn't stop here.

And I ran my code once and I found out like what is the address for input and output. And they are not going to change okay? So if you're not changing your code these addresses will always be same. So I found those address first time and the input image address is this one, output one is this one. So I added a breakpoint, I started my program but it comes and stops at main then I download my input image, then I ask him to continue execution. So he comes out of the breakpoint, he continues to execute up to five seconds I have put.

So this timeout is the maximum time for which he should continue execution. I am sure my program will finish within five seconds and after five seconds I am reading from this address and getting the output image. Only thing is these addresses I have now hard coded and since I changed my code here, the ELF file I am using here is after removing this scanf. So you make that script file and just type XSCT followed by the file name. So we need that, Tilscript also here, image process and Llanar color also here. Need all of them, image process is practical and you can see like now he's programming the FPGA, he programmed the FPGA and he downloaded everything happened and I have this out.bin

and here now. Now if I check whether it is right or wrong, I will get the right out. So that's it maybe I can mention one more command. One is the reset command so if you type RST it will okay so first I need to connect and I need the same way to get this tool. So if you use Once the reset command, he will reset the entire system which is same as this option here, Reset Entire System. So once you issue a reset, he will restart the entire system as well as the FPGA part will be cleared. So there won't be any bitstream, you will have to reprogram your system.

So let me try once more, so FPGA is one and source PS7, a particle, PS7 init, PS7 post-config, then how XSCT S.elf, unload it, but nothing comes here, but when we press continue, here the program under address is already here so CON will do or you can optionally put your own address 0x001. So everything happened. Now suppose you want to rerun the software part alone, what you can do is you can simply do again continue from this value. So the program order will be reset to this value and the processor will run which effectively means you are rerunning only the software part. You don't have to download the bitstream or anything so see now if I press it again you can see like he runs So each time I press, he reruns.

The only thing is my image data is lost. So always in special case we have image data going. So we are supposed to download the image data again before doing this continuum, before this restarting. Otherwise your program will simply restart. So I hope these commands will be useful to you, so those who want to use XSCT in storage. Okay, thank you.
