Hello all, so in this tutorial we will be discussing about reading and writing from the SD card which can be interfaced with ZedBoard. So as you might have seen there is an SD card slot at the back of ZedBoard and ZedBoard comes with an 8GB SD card. Ok, so it comes with a Linux pre-installed. So at this point we are not planning to use Linux so we will So first thing you need to do is you save those files, those Linux files somewhere so that you can use it in the future. Otherwise also you can download it later and this is the SD card. So I have remote on the Linux one.

So first thing maybe you like to do is to format and in future also if anything goes wrong, If your computer says it cannot open the SD card, you will have to format. And while formatting, you'll have to choose FAT32 file system. So as we know, if you want to read or write from any secondary memory, It needs to support some kind of file system. and usually file systems are managed by operating system but we are going to use standalone operating system now so you won't be getting all features of that file system but we will have limited features available and those are more than enough since we just want to read and write from SD card. Okay, so you'll

Now we can use SD card for many purposes, for example in our image processing you can use SD card for storing your image as well as for storing the processed image you can store there and if you are using some ADC-DAC application if you want to do some data logging that data SD card, SD card, OK, so that's the main advantage. So in the first tutorial I'm just going to show you read and write capabilities. For that what I will do is I'll store some image in my SD card and I will just make a copy of that image. So basically I will read that image and I will make a copy which constitutes both read and write operation.

OK, so again the image I'm going to use is LENAR. OK, so let's use that binary image of LENAR, So I have LENAR color dot bin, so this one I am copying here. Now first thing you need to remember as I said before the capabilities of the file system available with our standalone OS is limited So whichever file you are using, okay? So the name of that file should not contain more than eight characters. That's the first thing you need to remember. So I cannot directly use this file name when we do it on ZedBoard. Okay so because Lena 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10.

There are ten characters in Lena underscore color. The size cannot be more than eight. So I'm just going to call it then a C and extension part, it cannot be more than three characters. Okay so we need to keep it in mind. So if you're using some DIF image, you should not put the extension TIFF, you have to just put some TIFF or something like that. Later when you copy it to your computer, you can rename it accordingly and it supports hierarchy, that means you can have all this inside your SD card and you can keep your things inside that but again remember the size of or the name of each directory shouldn't be more than 8 characters, 8 bytes. So that's the requirement.

I have just copied it to my SD card and always safely eject it before putting it to our ZBoard. Okay, so I have taken my SD card, and now I'm inserting it to ZBoard. Okay, so now let's go to the software part. So this time as I mentioned, I am just demonstrating Retry capabilities, I am not planning to use any hardware part, I am just starting an SDK project, OK So we will start a new complication project. And let me call it SDS-something, TensorFlow, and here we choose it. We define platform because we don't have any hardware NPL part.

Choose empty application and choose finish. So the library is the header files for supporting this FAST file system. It doesn't come automatically with your BSP. ESP, OK? So they are not included by default. So we need to explicitly include those header files, those libraries in order to support our FAT file system. For that you should go to BSP and under port support package settings, under all of you, you need to check this option Xil, FFS, okay, generic FAT file system library. Only if you check it he will include the header files for this. Now there are slight difference between the header files in 2015 and later version so some codes which were written before 2015 might not be working now due to slight modification but

If you are starting now, no issues. Okay so I have my folder here so let me start in UOC source Let me call it stbest.v and finish so I already have the code i will just copy paste it And we'll try to explain to you okay so here okay already some functions are written So you can see there is a function called SD init this function basically mounts your SD card OK, and there is a path here. So this is like the drive name for your SD card. You can give any character there. Not only zero you can call it A, B, water, drive name you need. And this guy, he mounts the SD card.

He takes one parameter which is a pointer to FATFS which is a structure representing FAT file system. structure. So these things coming from this header file, FF.H. So we have included that header file here and as I mentioned before by default this header file is not included in BSP only when you check that option like in include Xilinx file system this will be coming into our BSP so remember to check that OK, so here is the function for mounting. Here is the function for unmounting. Function names are same here. Only difference is for unmount. The first parameter will be a null pointer. So we just use 0 there and so called the path it should match in both places. And this is the function

for reading from SD card, and this is the function for writing to SD card. Okay? So again these are abstract functions. For reading you just have to provide a name of the file which you want to read the full path to that file and the starting address in your DDA memory where that data should be kept. Okay? So this will be read like a binary file byte by byte and it will be kept starting from this address and he is going to read the enter file you don't have to specify the file size here okay if you want to read XSART file size and all these are the low-level function actually this fread function which is coming from this FF you can use this function so it basically takes a pointer to your

function like our standard C actually very similar but data types are slightly different and you need to again provide the destination address and here you can specify how many bytes he is supposed to read from the file and this is a pointer which you need to provide, okay? So what he does is how much data he exactly read will be updated to this variable using this point. That's what he's going to do because this function it needs to return two things He needs to return the status of file read operation as well.

So, we will be able to specify the name of the file, how much data you want to write to the file in bytes, and the starting address of DDA from where you want to right. So basically for writing to a file first we'll store data in DDA then we'll transfer it to the file and for reading from file first we'll transfer data from SD card to DDA then later from there we will use it that's our strategy. So our traditional maybe F-print, F-can of these things are not directly available. Again on this embedded platform that doesn't make sense also.

So we always process data in memory and finally if you want to log all the data you just dump it to the SD card. Similarly if you want to process data from SD card in one shot you read all the data to the memory then we process in the memory. That's the strategy. Now in the main function You can see first we need to initialize the SD card, then we are reading the file. Okay so as I mentioned before name of the file is now lensey.bin I guess that's the name I gave one second let me check okay I give lena c dot bin So we need to give that name here okay let's call it lena c.bin and we are reading it, and we are storing it in this buffer.

Okay? And the buffer is large enough to store the entire image, vital by vital times 3. And here I am reading the same data from the memory and I'm writing to the SD card using the write file thing. So let's call it Lana duplicate. And after that we are just ejecting SD card and we say like that. Okay, so make sure your board is connected and run configuration. First config is not needed here because we don't have any PL. And here we need to check and let's run. Okay, here done print is coming which is this last print that means he might have successfully So, let's put SD card back in my computer and let's see, and you can see like yeah, then our D is here.

Now you'll notice he always writes the file name in capital letters, it doesn't matter whether you specify it in small letter or capital letter, He's always going to save it using capital letter and these two files are exactly same. You can see the size and if you want we can see that there is a little bit of a difference between the two. and if you want we can check the content also. Yeah, E28-70 which is same as our original image. E28-7. Now sometimes you might be getting errors when you are doing it and he will return some error code so all these operations you can see like it is returning some value and by looking At that value you will be able to find out what the error is. For example, let me try to read

a file called Lener.den which doesn't exist. So let me try and run again. Let's see the output and he is saying like Error F Open Returned 4. Now these error codes they are also stored in FF.h and by looking at the error code you will be So you have to look at this F result one declaration and that is where the error is at. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. Read the image, we processed it in PL, we converted into grayscale then we scaled it. Same tutorial I am attempting. The only difference is this time I'm not using XSCT or UART or anything like that to transfer my image.

I'm going to read the same image which is currently in SD card. Let us see that image and I will transfer that image to my PL and the output of processing will be stored back into SD card and we'll use that SD card later in your computer to check whether things really worked or not. So that code again I already have, I will just show you and I will share the source code also. So there is no difference in the hardware part, we are going to use the exact same hardware So I don't have to regenerate the bitstream or anything, I have just changed my software code.

So in software what I have done is the functions that I showed you just now, init, eject, read, write I have moved them to a header file here and the function definitions I have moved to a C source code here. Okay, so that's the only difference. So that in the top file I just include svcard.h this header file which internally includes that ff.h. So here also make sure under board support package under settings you check this option otherwise it will give compilation time error. Okay, So here let's see what happens. So the first part is exactly same I'm initializing the DMA controller and here I'm initialising the SD card And this is where we are configuring that rescale IP

And here, I'm just printing the addresses of input and output. Okay? Same as before But previously here there was a scanf And which will wait for me to transfer the image data through the XSCT interface So what I am doing is, I am going to use this read file which we discussed before for reading the file from this V card. So now it is len previously data was coming to this buffer through XSCT interface now it is coming from the SD card so we send it to the hardware to the PL he might have processed that will know after this line that means he finished processing and once he finished processing what I do is I will take that processed image where is and then I will store the processed image sitting here in this buffer output image.

So, I will take it from there and I am going to store it in SD card and I am going to call it LENG.B. Okay? Hello? You can call it LenerG.B, SK, because after processing it will be grayscale and the size 1x4 of the initial image because our scaling factory is 2 Once it is done we will just eject the SD card and we'll just print Ok, so let me run SoC, Vivado, Vitis, SD card, SoC, Vitis. SoC, Vivado, SoC, Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, dot pin, everything else is same, 256 to 56 and glascale. And you can see the output, it is the right hand. So I hope this will be useful to you and this will be useful to us for many future tutorials also so I'll again share the source code please try it yourself
