Hello all, so in this tutorial I wanted to show you how we can store some TXT file, text file into SD card. So in the last tutorial we have seen how to do it with binary file. So I just wanted to show how can we do it with text file also. That is usually useful if you want to log some information you are getting some information from some ADC and octodial converter and you want to store it in the SD card and data and then you can use the So, if you look at the PLLs, Facelog Loop, they are UNLOGIN NATURE, and also the front-end of the serializer, DC serializer, and GTP GTX primitives.

They are all UNLOGINE NATURE. In addition to that, from 7 series Xilinx they have a dedicated analog to digital converter also called XADC Xilinx ADC, a 12-bit ADC, it is there which you can actually connect your analog signals and get the digital output and process it Now even before all these things, Xilinx always used to have a primitive called system monitor inside the FPGA. So this is again an unlock interface, it has an unlock to digital converter inside and this primitive that was used for monitoring the on-chip temperature, what is the temperature inside FPGA we can monitor using that also we can monitor the voltages so the different voltages we can check the core voltage, I-O voltage, voltage supply going to block RAM

Things like that. So all these were supported through system monitor and from 7 series FPGA and our other Zynq chip, it's FPGA Fabric A7 series. This system monitor and XADC they are combined together as a single interface. So today we will use this system monitor to monitor the temperature inside our FPGA and we will try to log that temperature information to the SD card on a or a regular interval. Okay, so if you program your FPGA with any bit stream, you can actually see this system monitor in action. Okay, so we need to actually program it.

So when you connect the JTAG there itself you can see this XADC system monitor, okay? And you can monitor the temperature here. Now, if you don't put any bit stream It will always show this absolute zero temperature minus 273. Okay, so let me program any bit stream we'll do. So let's take some, yeah, from our previous tutorial and you can see the temperature variation. Okay, so again, so for a lot of research work also, this is useful, you can monitor how the temperature variation is affecting the performance things like that.

And this temperature monitoring That is also used when we have a DDR interface, the MIC memory interface generator whenever you use MIC inside an FPGA for interfacing with DDR. So not the PS DDR interface okay if you want to interface your PL fabric directly with the external DDR will have to use an IP core MIC memory interphase generator. Now the internal sampling window of this MIG, it has to be changed based on the on-chip temperature also. So there also FPGA will be using this internal system monitor for monitoring the temperature and to decide when to sample the data coming from DDR.

Okay so now to show all these okay I'm going to start a new project and this is a very short project. OK, so let me just call it XADC system. So, now we have a PSYNC processing system. My plan is to use this IP from Zynx which instantiate this XADC inside it and read data from that XADC from the processor and log it to the SD card so that we can later see XADC, XADC-VZ, XADC on our computer. OK, so XADC. This is the IP, XADc-VZ. Again a lot of options are there for knowing all the details you will have to definitely go to the user manual. There you can find all the details.

Now, Unlocked Digital Converter VMA interface with XADC later. If you look over on ZedBoard near your VGA connector There is a header you can see that is a header for connecting to XADC. That we may see later and this is a dedicated interface for connecting a log interface. Yeah, this differential signal, Vpvin. Now we are not planning to connect it. We are just using the internal system monitor inside this IP just to check the on-chip temperature. That's what we are trying to do. So again, yeah, again in the user manual you can see like what are these different options.

We are going to use an AXI-Lite interface for interfacing this IP with our processor. This is a dynamic reconfiguration port interface that means at runtime you can change the settings inside the IP. So there are a lot of option again, as I mentioned you can set some range for temperature, minimum temperature, maximum temperature and if the chip temperature goes beyond these values, he will give an alarm. In a sense, he will make one of these output signals high. You can see like user temperature, alarm out, VCC internal voltage, auxiliary voltage, things like that.

So you can set these values and if they cross the limit, this will go high. This you can connect to some LED or something so that you can see yeah, things are something is going wrong. and he will also give you an interrupt. So, you can see there's an interrupt signal here so that interrupt will go high provided that you enable the corresponding interrupt using some internal registers, okay? So we'll use this interrupt and why we are going to use this interrupt. So as I mentioned, this guy has an ADC inside and you can see the details here.

It's a 12-bit ADC and maximum supported conversion speed is 1 mega samples per second. Now, what happens is each time he does an unlocked digital conversion, this signal will go high. EOC, End of Conversion Out, and if we enable the corresponding interrupt, he'll also give an interrupt telling like he has finished one unlocked digital conversion. for knowing that, but here my main aim is to show you storing data into SD card. So I'm just choosing single channel, that means we are going to measure only one ADC channel and that channel is temperature and we are going to use an AXI-Lite interface to interface the processor with this IP core and we are gonna read that temperature.

Okay so that's all we need to know at this point. OK, now we can run connection automation and this Xilite we just connect to the GP port. And we can connect the interrupt also. We can work on polling mode also but since we know about interrupt. Read the current temperature value from here and we will log it to the SD card. That's our aim. We are not going to connect any of these signals now. Okay, so that's it. So now we can just go ahead and generate bit-frame, then we will export it into SDK and start writing our software.

See you after that. So hardware part is done. Now let's start with the SDK. So, new application project. Let's call it xadc-test and mpapp. So here also I'm going to use that hdcard.c and h files that we developed but i have made some modifications here to support this text file write operation that will explain anyway now he will give error So, let's go back to the system monitor, because we do not have the FAT system, so enable the FAT file system. Okay, so first let me show you the part for this system monitor. So since I am using only system monitor part, this is the header file we are going to use, XSMO0H and most of the part is our usual traditional part.

So anyway, I'm initializing the SD card for the SD part. We'll come back to that later. So as usual we have a lookup config function and config-inutilized function As usual. And here we are saying we are going to use a single channel so all these functions are prebuilt inside that header file okay so we are saying like we are going use single channel model and we are going to monitor the temperature. OK, so this is the constant for temperature. So we have all those constants declared again in that header file which one you want to monitor.

So our aim is to monitor only the temperature. If it is some other value, you just replace temperature with the corresponding constant there. It will just work. And here we are calling again Intrep setup as before. So we are passing a pointer to the intro controller and a pointer to the system monitor structure and the IRQ number. This does nothing special, it's same as before. So he just initialized the GAC, Gender Control Controller, and setting the priority and he is connecting our intro service handler with this Particular, Intrupt, Request Number, IRQ number, that's it. Our standard stuff, nothing new there.

And we are just enabling the interrupt and here you can see like we have to do two twice. It one is a global interrupt enable again this is a register inside system monitor So only if this is set, all the interrupts will be enabled. If the global interrupt is disabled, that means all interrupts are disabled. That is one thing and I'm also enabling end of conversion interrupt, EOC so that each time he converts the temperature value into digital format we get an interrupt. Okay? So this is that mask. Okay, I have added more features here. So in it and eject they are same as before.

Now I have added this new function called Open File. So previously we only had read file and write file and whenever you call read file write file he will open the file, he will read or write the data, he will close the file everything was happening in one shot. So that's not very flexible actually because when you open a file there are two different cases. One is you want to create a new file, in another case it's like you want to append to an existing file okay like our standard opening in any programming language. So I have tried to bring it there so now we have this new function called open file and you have to pass the name

I'm calling it logdata.csv, which is a text file, CSV file, and you can specify the mode as read, write or append. OK so you can see what I have done here again depending upon your Vivado, sorry, SDK version, you may have to do minor modification. If it is read mode, it's straightforward. OK this is the built-in function and we pass the parameter FAread here. If it is write mode, what we need to do is use shell C language. If you open it with the write mode, if the file exists, it will overwrite that file. And if the file does not exist, he will create a new file. That's the idea. So I have tried to do the same thing here.

So first I am trying to open a new file with the create new in write mode here, these are built-in one and this function will return an error if this file already exists. If it doesn't exist it won't return error he'll return something called FR OK so that's what I'm checking here if the return value is not FR OK that means that file exists if it is a FR OK, that means OK. He just created the file and we can just return. If the file already exists, this is where I am deleting the file. You can see, F-unlink That's the function for deleting. Then again, I am creating a new file and I'm just returning Straightforward If it is open mode, OK, so you can see again what I'm doing. I'm trying to open a file

Open mode, Open mode, open mode, Open, Open mode. If the file does not exist, he will give an error. If he gives an error, I am creating a new file in that mode. Since it is append in the first case, that means file already exists, the right pointer to that file should be moved to the end position within the file. and then the file pointer to the end of the file so that next data will get appended. If it is newly created file you don't have to do it, automatically the file pointer will be at the beginning of the file itself.

Okay, so that's what we are doing. Okay, so this is one thing. Now write file, this has become much simpler because you are now supposed to call this function only after opening it in either open mode or write mode. and here this function is same as VIP4, we are just writing to the SD card, you need to pass the pointer to the file, you need to parse the memory address from where you want to write, you want to parse how much data you want to write to SD card and he will update how much data he wrote using this one. Similarly for read, again you are supposed to open it first before calling this function, read function and here it just reads We will get a point to the function we adjusted.

So, this is my aim. I want to load the temperature data every one second. So, this ADC you have He is very fast, his conversion speed is like 1 mega samples per second. But I know I'm not interested in all the temperature values. I want to check the temperature value only once every second. Now traditionally if you are using a text file in C we have something called this F-printf and we can just write it to the file straightforward. But here that is not the case. Here if you try to log every small bit of information to the SD card SD card, that will make our system highly inefficient because SD card is accessed in a special manner, block access.

So the operation is very slow. So what you are supposed to do is you buffer all the data to your memory and when sufficient data is there in memory, you just dump it to the SD card. That's the strategy we usually use. Similarly, how your cache or main memory works. So he stores data into the cache and at some point of time it will be dumped to the main memory. And similarly from main memory at some point it will get dumped to the secondary memory. Your hard disk because hard disk is much slower. So that's the strategy we are going to use.

So this is the buffer where I am planning to initially buffer the data, data buffer. and I also have a pointer here which is at the beginning pointing to the beginning of this buffer and again suppose you want to store data for several hours okay in that case your data buffer should be very big and practically that may not be possible you have only 512 MB RAM on Zynq so you cannot allocate like 100 MB array for storing that So here I'm always allocating only 1K and my plan is to store 1K then dump it to SD card, then again reuse it.

Okay? So that's the plan we are going to do. So let's see how it is done. So whenever the conversion happens and look at the conversion, we will get an intro so we will go to that intro service routine. Okay, and You can see what he's doing. He will first disable the intro as usual any ISO first and he is reading from the interim status register and he is writing back that status register to clear that first thing. And here, he's checking what goes the interim and this makes sure the interim happens only because of end-of-conversion operation.

This is not a spurious signal and if it is because of end-of-conversion we are reading the data from system monitor. And what data we are reading? We are reading from the temperature channel and you will get that data. Now, the data coming from system monitor or XA DC that is not an actual temperature value that is some voltage value and that voltage value has to be converted into a temperature value using a predefined function. Again, you can see it in the data sheet is an equation again every ADC there will be some function which converts this voltage value to the absolute digital value so we are calling that function and he will return the actual temperature value now I'm just printing it on a teratorm also on the serial terminal also

So that we can see like things are really happening. Now this again, this is standard C style, S print of predefined function in SDIO.h. And this is the function which is used for storing your data into a memory buffer in formatted way. Okay, so I'm saying data pointer remember at the beginning data pointer is pointing to the beginning of my data buffer. So you need to pass a pointer to the memory and you want to say in what format he should store. So I'm saying like floating point with three fractional bit, and I am passing this temperature data.

So this will get stored in the array here. Now when I get the next interrupt, I need to store it in the same array but my data pointer should be addressed, otherwise I will be overwriting my previous data. So by what value you should increment the data pointer? SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA. SoC, Vitis is a pointer to a character data. So increment by one will increment it by one byte. So I am writing in fractional. My assumption is my temperature will have two bit integer part then three bit fraction part.

integer digit, that means two characters then one dot then three for fractional part and one new line so 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 I need eight byte eight character to represent this information in character format that's why I am incrementing it by eight So if you want to store 4 fractional part, you should increment it by 9. Or if you think like the integer part will have 3 digits, again you have to increment it by 9. Okay? So that keep in mind. And here what I'm doing... So each time I'm getting an intro, I am incrementing this log number and whenever I have 10 temperature

SD card, SD card 1, SD card 2, SD card 3, SD card 4, SD card 5, SD card 6, SD card 7, SD card 8, SD card 9, SD card 10, SD card 11, SD card 12, SD card 13, SD card 14, SD card 15, SD card 16, SD card 17, SD card 18, SD card 19, SD card 20, SD card 21, SD card 22, SD card 23, SD card 24, SD card 25, SD card 26, SD card 27, SD card 28, SD card 29, SD card 30, SD card 31, SD card 32, SD card 33, SD card 34, SD card 36, SD card 37, SD card 38, SD card 35, SD card 39, SD card 45, SD card 66, SD card 46, SD card 68, SD card 77, SD card 48, SD card 59, SD card 86, SD card 78, SD card 79, SD card 97, SD card 98, SD card 88, SD card 95, SD card 96, SD card 93,

XA-DC, so that he doesn't generate any more intro. Once I get 20 data. So again this you can put 2000, 5000, what number you want. If I haven't reached this maximum value, I will just sleep one second. Okay? So this is what is creating one second delay. So once I get an interrupt before re-enabling the interrupt, I'm waiting for one second. So this will make sure the interrupt comes only once in and every second. So again all these things, okay, MAC, SLO, we can make all of them normal if you prefer so that we just have to change it one place. Okay, so let's see if it works.

So I hope logic is clear to you. So if you want to use the same SD card code in your code, only thing you need to make sure it is S-PrintF, yeah you need to write it in the format that you need whether integer floating by and whatever and you need to increment this pointer accordingly and when you call this function make sure you call it with the exact number of bytes that you want to look. If you put more bytes nothing will happen he will Write that entire data, it will be all null characters 0 to the text file. Nothing will happen actually.

Okay so now it's time to test. So let's first check what is in the SD card. I have already one log data so let me delete it. So my SD card is empty now. I'm putting an empty SD card and since it is empty, opening it in write mode. So he's supposed to create a new file. Even if you put up and there, no problem. It will work. SoC, Vivad ICHI, coming from here. So now let me take the SD card and put it here. You can see that file is here. Since it is CSV format we can see yeah it is already logged so you can match the values they are matching right? Yeah it's exactly same. Now let me put it back and let me run again. So this time Again, I'm operating in write mode.

That means he is supposed to overwrite that previous data. OK, let's check. You can see again only 20 data are there and they will match with this one. So when you're checking it, make sure you close this Excel file because Windows, it has some of its memory also. So sometimes it is the previous data. So make sure you cross it. OK, so now let me try the upend mode so that I don't want to lose the previous data. Let's skip this also. And this time you can see like there are 40 data because he just upended from the previous data OK, so that's it. So I hope this will be useful to you.

Now if you want to read text file from SD card, I guess that is a rare thing to do but still if you want go do it What you are supposed to do is first, you are supposed to call read file and read from SD card to a buffer. Then from that buffer, you need to use S-CANF to read it to another variable. Okay so you will put that buffer here. Yeah, syntax will look similar but instead of S-PRINT-OF you'll have S-CANN-OF this point remains there, this formatting remains there. Instead of this one, you will have ampersand temperature data.

So that value comes to the temperature. So that you can try out. Okay, thank you. See you next week.
