Hello all, in the next few tutorials we will be discussing about something called partial reconfiguration. So this is a very interesting topic and I guess it will be gaining more traction in the coming years mainly because of using FPGAs in the cloud. You might have heard about this term otherwise you can go ahead and check. So this technique is supported by both Xilinx as well as Intel, now Pat will be using Vivado to do it. So in this tutorial I'll be giving the basic background about what is partial reconfiguration and some of the terminologies that we are going to use because if you look at the user guide there will be so many terms which might be confusing but we don't need to understand all the terms.

So, this is the main motivation for partial reconfiguration. Suppose you have a system and you don't want to use all the modules in the system always. That means some of the modules are mutually exclusive. As shown in the picture I have a processing chain. So, let's see what we can do. That means some of the modules they are mutually exclusive. So as shown in the picture, I have a processing chain. So I have modules A, B, C, D, E, F, but A and B they are mutually exclusive, C and D they are mutually exclusive, E and F they are mutually exclusive. So whenever I do processing, I will use either B, C or E or I'll be using A, D, F. Okay? Now the traditional way of implementing this circuit will be something like

So you will insert multiplexers in between these modules and you will choose which module you need based on this multiplexer control. So this is what we call as a spatial multiplexing approach. Now partial reconfiguration, it provides an alternative for this where we are going to use temporal multiplexing instead of spatial multiplexings. So here the idea is you will be modifying only part of the FPGA instead of reconfiguring the entire FPGA fabric. So that is the definition for partial reconfiguring, so selectively modifying portion of the FPCA instead of reconfuring the entire FPGA.

Now when you are modifying some part of the FBGA, the remaining part it will be still operational okay? It will continue to work while the reconfiguration operation is in progress. Reconfiguration that is not the case you cannot use FPGA while it is going reconfiguration process. So there are a lot of advantages so first one is you can increase the effective logic capacity of the FPGA because you are doing temporal multiplexing for example here you can see I have designated some area of the FPCA here which i'll be doing partial reconfiguration, I'll be doing runtime reconfiguration. The term partial reconfiguration and runtime reconfigurations

they are interchangeably used nowadays although it can be different depending upon the scenario part we'll be using both terms interchangeably so i have designated some area here and i'm saying like logic in this part uh can be reconfigured at runtime so what i can do is okay at time t1 I can put hardware 1 module there and later at time t2 I can put Hardware 2 there. Okay, so I have same region but I'm using different modules at different times that's what we call as a temporal multiplexing. So this will increase the effective logic capacity because now you don't need hardware 1 and hardware 2 sitting concurrently which will need more FPGA area okay.

So here also in the previous example, you can do temporal multiplexing and you can implement either A or B at a given point in time at some given portion in the FPGA This will also help in reducing power consumption because you are reducing the area which will directly result in reduction power consumption and this will also reduce system cost because now you need a small FPGA to implement a larger FPGA because you are doing the stem power multiplexing. And this is one of the major advantage which is going to come virtualization of FPGA that means one FPGA chip can be shared among multiple users by designating different regions and different people can use different regions without disturbing the other region.

Because as I mentioned before in partial reconfiguration while you reconfigure one region it will not Okay. Now these are some of the terminologies that you will come across now. Xilinx, they have their own terminologies until they have their on terminologies. Okay. So I have also added some of my terminologies for easier understanding. So only these many terms we need to remember. Okay. So first term is called a PRR or Partially Reconfigurable Region. So this is your entire FPGA chip, entire FPGA fabric and you logically partition it into many regions.

There is no physical partitioning, you are just logically dividing it into many parts. So the portion of the FPGA which will never be reconfigured at runtime, which will never go under partial reconfiguration, that portion we call as the static region. So there will be only one static region, its shape can be water shaped. Now the region of the FPGA which are designated to be reconfigured during runtime, those regions are called PRR or partially reconfigurable region. So here we have two regions, region 1 and region 2 and these portions can be reconfigured and so on.

So, let us look at the VIPIN KIZHEP, VITC, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and then we will look at the VITC and see how much VITC is and how much V So, let's look at the implementation of that same module PSK, FSK, QPSK and going to call them as different modes of that module. So B is my module here but B can have different mode but at a given point in time only one mode of B will be running at this region. That means all these modes they are mutually exclusive. All these modes, they are mutually exclusive. So same way here, I have a module A which has two modes, but either mode 1 or mode 2. One of them will be present at a given point in time.

Now configuration again this is a science term so it is a set of co-existent modes that make up a functional processing chain. So as I mentioned before only one of the modes exists here and one of the modes X is here. Now, the combination of the modes that exist that we call as a configuration. For example, V mode 1, A mode 1 together with static region that will make one configuration or B mode 2, A mode 2 along its static region it will make another configuration so on and so forth. So if you look at these modes the total number of possible configuration is the Cartesian product of number of modes that exist in each region.

So, in this case I will have three cases here, I'll have two cases here total, I can add three times to six different configuration. But practically maybe all those configurations are not valid, you won't be using all of them for processing, but theoretically six are possible, but the useful ones can be less than that. So it's possible like B mode 2 and A mode 1, they together make no sense for you. Okay? So that's possible. Now this, okay I'm going to discuss the FPGA architecture. So this I have already covered in my first tutorial lecture.

Only a few additional things I am going to cover here. Few more terminologies. So as you know, Zynq's FPGAs are divided into rows and columns. In the left FPGAs they are also divided into rows and columns. So the division into rows that is based on something called clock region. So inside FPGA there will be special routing for clocks and we have so-called regional clock routing. So there is a global wires carrying the clock signal then there are local network for distributing this clock region. So each row is actually representing one clock region, all the elements in that region.

Vocabulary, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, ILA, XS Because a frame is always 1 bit wide and it extends one corner. And the height will be only one row. So what I mean is look at this one here. So this is a frame, and this is only 1 bit wide, and its height will be always one row. One row. And this frame is used for configuring a particular kind of resource. For example, this frame is use for configuring CLBs. But using one frame you cannot configure all the CLBs in this column because it's only one bit wide.

So how many frames you will need to configure one entire column of CLB depends upon which family of FPGA you are using. Now the thing is, the smallest unit for partial reconfiguration is always called, I'm calling it a tie. Again this is my terminology. So a tie is a column of a particular kind of resource which is only one row height. So here, this another thing we will call it as a CLB column, but a column which is only one clock region high, one row high. That means from here to here that's what we are going to call a tie. So when you define this region, when you partition FPGA into your partially reconfigurable regions, it should be an integer multiple of these tiles.

So even if you define like I need only these many resources for my module, Vivado is always going to use this entire row for implementing that logic because that's how the internal architecture is. Because this frame, the smallest unit, you cannot subdivide it is always one row high so your region should be always an integer multiple of columns and there should be continuous I can say my region is from here to here, this entire thing. It should be continuous but in the pool there will be option like you can exclude DSPs and VRAM coming in between if you wish to but you cannot use them to implement any other logic so practically there is no advantage in Xcluing them. Okay, so yeah, so that's the thing again this terms are not important only

thing to remember is when you go to Vivado when we define these regions we will always define them in number of columns and the height of that region will be always integer multiples of Vivado, VIVADOS, VIVA, XSCT, XSCL, XSCC, XS as frogmanning. Now, when again, when we are doing a small example, it doesn't matter how you do it. But if you're aiming for high performance, you will have to do it in such a way that when you define the region, you should try to increase the density, you should try and improve the rootability and you should try to improve the performance because where you put this region will ultimately decide what will be the performance of your system. More details again, these are more or

lesser research topics you can read research papers if you are interested but we'll be doing some practical example. Okay so again as I mentioned what all things we should consider when we do floor planning? So one mandatory condition in Vivado is the regions that you define There should be always rectangular in shape and the height should be always in number of device row, which I already mentioned. So when you do partial... So, we will always reconfigure one entire region. Even if there is minor change in the module which is implemented within the region it is not possible to change only that part at least in the flow that we are following there is a different flow where you may be able to do it but in the flow

that we are follow you can always modify only one entire region so that's why we need to try to keep the size of the region as small as possible, as compact as possible. At the same time, the region should be big enough to implement the module in that region. So if your module resource requirement is 100 CLB, your region should have more than 100 CLB otherwise that module cannot be implemented there. And again, as the size of a region increases and the size of pitch stream. So that's another thing that we are going to see.

So Vivado, he will give you a so-called full bit stream which we have been using all this time. He will also give you something called partial bit stream because run time you need to change only one part of the FPGA, one portion of the FPCA for example here you want to change only this part. So Vivado will give you so-called partial bit stream which can be used for changing only this region without affecting any other region. So that size of that B-Stream is also proportional to the size of the area. It is not like a constant for a given FPGA.

So again, that's why we need to keep the size of their regions smaller. So again, this is a practical example the one I mentioned before, this is a processing chain for an OFDM transmitter so you can have different modules here. We have modulator, pilot insertion, preamble insertion and IFFT. But I can have different kind of modulators QPSK, QAM1664. I have different kind pilots. I can have a different kind of preamble. I can use different IFFD. And each valid combination of them is representing a configuration. This is the one I mentioned before.

So I have three kinds of modulation. I have three kind of pilot. I have three kinds of preamble, I have three kind of IFFT. So theoretically there should be three times, three times, three times, three those many configuration theoretically, but practically not all combinations of pilot and preamble works together. So we need to choose them only the valid one. So when I do like that, only there are nine valid configuration. So this is one configuration, this is one configurations on and so forth. Vivado, VIVADOS, VIVADA, VIVAODO, VIBR, VIVARO, VIVEADOS, Or you can completely do it using TCL script.

We'll be using part of it in GUI and part of it in TCL so that things are much clearer until you become experts on it, okay? So first thing that we're going to do is we will have to generate the netlists for the static region and the reconfigurable modules. That is the first thing we are going to do. And the netlists they are called DCP files in Vivado, Design Checkpoints. So we will create the net list for the static region. That means a region which is not going to change and the net list for the reconfigural module which will change during runtime.

And we will save all this net list. After that, we'll have to do the prop planning. You have to tell Vivado where are these reconfigurable region within the FPGA fabric so that we have to tell. Later, you have to combine the netlists of the static region and the netlists of the reconfigurable modules together to generate valid configuration. Okay? So only for the valid combination we combine the netlist. Then we will place and route the netlist. After place and route, we will save the placed and routed netlist separately.

And from that place and routed net list you will remove the reconfigurable part. And again save the netlist why that is important? Again I will explain you when we do it in practice. Then we will combine the other reconfigurable module because you already took some modules, you created one configuration. Okay, you are done with that configuration. So you will remove the modules, the mode, the one we used and you add a new mode and you will again generate a new necklace. And finally, you will generate the full and partial bitstream for all the valid configurations.

So these are the steps we are going to use. So this slide I will be referring back in the next tutorial Okay, so even if you don't understand anything here that's perfectly fine because this will be used as a reference when I do it in Vivado so that you can cross-refer here. Now one important thing that you will come across when we again do it in Vivado is called out of contact synthesis. This term you might have seen whenever we do block design, Vivado will be showing like launching Out-of-Contact Synthesis. Now, why Out-of Synthesis, Contact Synthesis is important here also?

So it's important because when Vivado does synthesis in normal flow he will always add input and output buffers to the input and output ports so when you declare a module you will have input output interface so Vivado by default he will always have input buffer to all input signals and output buffer to all output signals. Why buffers are important? I think in the first tutorial, I have explained. Now the problem is when you synthesis some of the modules separately and later you combine these netlists to build your entire system, this will be problematic.

So let me take an example and try to show it to you. So I have two modules here. I have module A, I have module B and my plan is to do partial reconfiltration okay so first thing what i will do is this is representing my static region this region is not going to change during runtime or this module is not going to change during run time but this module uh i am planning to change during So the first step in Vivado is to synthesize the netlist for this region or this module and this module separately. So when I do it, in traditional flow what Vivado does is he will add buffers to all the inputs here, all the output here as well as he will add buffer to all the input and output here.

So these are two separate synthesis process, running them separately. So in your block design also you might have noticed he will say like out of context He is running for each IP code separately same thing is happening there also. So I generated the netlists separately after that I will have to combine them together before placement and protein. So when I do it, this is what is going to happen. I will try to combine the netlists. The problem is you cannot have these input output buffers for a module which is used within another module because physically these buffers they are sitting next to FPGA pins.

So for the topmost module that perfectly makes sense because the input output they are connected external world, they will be coming through pin so they can come through the buffer no issues. But this module which is instantiated within the module A, within the static module these buffers are not possible because inside the chip physically they do not exist between these routing wires within the chip. So you need to tell Vivado that when he is synthesizing he should not insert buffers. So that is what we call as out of context.

So if you tell Vivado, I want to synthesize a particular module in out-of-context mode, he will synthesize it, he will generate the netlist, he will generated the DCP file but he will not insert the input output buffer so that later you can stitch these two netlists together and you can build a single netlist and this can be actually implemented. So that's all in this introduction. So next tutorial we will be doing a practical case, we will be the same image processing example to demonstrate how to do partial reconfiguration.

Thank you.
