Hello all, so in this tutorial we will have our first practical example of partial reconfiguration. So let me try to explain what I am trying to do. So this system, this we have seen before, this is the system developed in our first tutorial for interfacing with VGA. What this system was doing? It was sending some image to our IP. So we have an IP called this image process IP. And if you remember, we were doing some kind of convolution operation inside this IP for edge detection and the output of that convolution we were sending back to our system memory through our DMA controller.

And from the system memory that was being displayed on the monitor using our VDMA IP and AXI4-2 video out IP. So this is what we did. Now I'm trying to apply partial reconfiguration here. So if you remember our image processing IP, it was doing some kind of a convolution and we have already seen by changing the kernel use for convolution, you can get different kinds of effects. So we actually saw a blurring operation averaging operation which will make our image looks like blurred Sobel operation, which will detect the edges in our image and there are other kind of kernels also.

For example we have kernel for sharpening. So my aim is to do some partial reconfiguration that means change only the portion of this IP which is actually doing that convolution otherwise every other part remains same all of them they have the line buffer they have the output buffer There is no change to any of them. Only if you can change that kernel part, that convolution part, you will be able to have different kind of effects. Okay? So our aim is at runtime, I should be able to change the part which is doing the convolution operation.

If you want to have different kinds of image operations and if you are not using So, when you are using partial reconfiguration what you need is you will need multiple image processing IP here and each of them doing a specific operation, specific convolution with a specific kernel. But if I use partial reconfigurations it is possible to have a single IP here but at runtime I will change the logic which does the convolution operation. I will save a lot of area actually, a lot of resources when I go for design. Okay?

So that's what we are trying to achieve. So first step we have to do is we need to build some proper directory structure because we'll be using many files here and we'll be use multiple scripts also possibly so it's good to have a good directory structure. So what I have done is, OK, this is my project folder, partial reconfuration. So I have already copied the block design from my previous project to here and when you are copying the block design, you just have to copy the project file,.xpf file and.source file.

These are temporary files generated by Vivado where you can delete them. OK, so we have our project and we have our sources folder. And if you are starting fresh, you can make the block design actually by starting a fresh project also. Since we already have the block design, I just scope it here. Then I made many folders here. So I have a folder for storing the IP core. I'll explain to you why that is needed because we will store our image process IP there. and I have another folder where I will be storing all the netlists.

So within that, I have a folder for storing the netlists for different kind of kernels. I have a fold for storing other kernel, Sobel kernel, Stat sharpen kernel, different kind of kernel then I have a follow for storing the Netlist for the static region, the region which is not going to change at runtime. So the entire system other than that convolution part, it won't be changing during runtime. So this folder will store that netlist currently all of them are empty as we go along we will fill them then I have folders for storing the netlist for different configuration now in this case my aim is to have three configuration okay each configuration will represent a particular image processing operation.

So if I say like configuration 1 will represent let's say Sobel operation, configuration 2 will represent So we have this folder for that. And we have another folder for storing the bitstream. Again, now they are all empty. As I said, we will have three configurations. So I have three folders here. And later each one of them, they will have a complete bitstream which can be used for programming the entire chip and they will also have partial bitstream which IP core, IP core, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA So let's open it, that project.

Okay so this is our image processing IP if you remember. So we had a lot of line buffers inside that for line buffer then some logic for controlling line buffer. Then we had this module the convolution which was actually doing the convolution operation and this is the kernel we use for Sobel operation. We have two kernels here. Now, as I mentioned before, as far as image processing is concerned in our example, the entire circuit remains the same except this portion which tests the convolution. If you change this kernel, okay, the behavior changes. So I don't have to modify any other portion of the circuit during runtime other than this module, this kernel.v So I am going to use this module as my partially reconfigurable module.

So remember, what was it? This one, where is the terminology? Okay. Reconfigurable module, okay. A module targeted for runtime reconfiguration. So our reconfigurable modules in this example is this CUN, which is sitting inside this larger Vivado, it optimizes your entire circuits and there is no logic inside your circuit. In that case you have black boxes they are problematic in normal flow but in PR flow we want to keep every reconfurable module as black box when you synthesize the static region or static part of the circuit so what we need to do is we need to delete this part so that it Synthesis translate off and Synthesis translate on.

Anything between these two So, any of them will work. Okay? So let's just comment things out so that there is no confusion regarding whether any logic is present inside this module also. So I am just removing it. Now it has become ‐‐ okay. So now let's come back here to our block design and I'm changing the path to my IP So that he is going to look at this new IP, the one I modified. Previously the path was different. So I'll go to IP repository and I will add this as my repository. So he detected that IP image process.

Okay, okay. So he detected something changed report IP status and you need to choose update selected so that he updates it. OK, so that's done. OK, so thats about the initial part. So let's look at the step. The step is synthesize the static region by keeping all the reconfigurable modules as black boxes and generate the netlist. That is the first step. OK, so we have kept the reconfigurable module as black box. So lets go ahead and generate the Netlist for the static region. That means this entire circuit except that convert because it's committed out. So you just go ahead and click Run Synthesis here. Okay, so as I mentioned before part of PR flow is GUI based part of it will be

will be using article commands. Xilinx they have tried to bring more GUI by adding some PR Visor here, Partially Reconfigured with Visor. So if you go to Tools there's an option like Partially Reconfiguration Visor but it really doesn't work if you are doing block-based design and I guess it is better to go with the old flow which is a mix of both GUI and Celesticle. Okay so now he is building it and if you go Design Runs you can see this thing here out So this is what I was mentioning. So for every IP in your system, in normal flow also, what he does is he synthesizes each of them separately and he creates netlists for each of them separately and finally he will combine all those netlists together to build your entire system.

And while he is synthesizing each of them there shouldn't be input output buffer with any of them. So they will be all running using so called out-of-contact synthesis which we mentioned in the previous tutorial. So he will synthesize our IP also, he will build everything except that convolution part because it's a black box. Okay so now the synthesis step is over, We can open the synthesized netlist. So this is a DCP file, the one he generated. So if you go to our project folder and if you go under runs, if you go on the synth, you will be able to see that file.

This one, SystemRapper.dcp. This is the netlist for the static part of your project. and also you can see the netlist for individual IP cores here, each folder represents one IP core and you can see that individual netlist for each IP core. Okay so when we open the netlist here, you'll see like Vivado he's giving a warning He is saying like could not to serve not primitive black box cell system image process instantiators So he is basically saying he couldn't find the netlist for CO and V, Convo module, and it is a black box.

So, we already have a folder here called static. So let's copy that netlist to this folder and that we are going to do using TCL command. You can actually go and copy paste it but now we will start using TCL. So the command for writing a netlist is called write checkpoint and you just say like where he should like it. So we want to store it in netlist, static, let's call it and you need to give the name for the DCP file okay so let's call at static.dcp just like that. Okay so now he is saving our netlist here so you can see like static.dCP So DCPA this is a proprietary Netlist format only Vivado can read and process it, It's not open source like our EDIF format. This is the new Xilinx Netlist.

So it has Netlist information as well as more information like the constraint file information that is also actually embedded into this Netlist anyway. So first step is done. Next step is we need to synthesize each reconfigured module separately in out of context and generate the netlist for each of them. So as far as we are concerned, we have only one reconfigured module which is CUN. So if you go to the hierarchy here under Netlist, under Image Processing, you can see like here our CUN is, it is in black color some kind of because it's a black box and there is no option to expand it any other module if you expand he will basically show you what are

So as I mentioned in previous tutorial, modes are mutually exclusive implementation of a reconfigurable module. So our reconfigurable is called CUN. I am planning to have three modes for it. That is why we have kept three folders here, BLUR, SOBEL and SHARPEN. So if I go into that folder, so I have already copy pasted the source code there. All of them Will have a module with the same name Okay, their name should be the same even the file names are different the module name should be same all of them have the name current you can see and All their interfaces should match that means the input output should match in names as well as directory in every respect. So you'll see like they're all matching.

What is different is what is happening inside the module, okay? For example, In case of Sobel, you can see like we have two kernels and we are doing the edge detection here. In case of Sharpen, we have a different kind of kernel here and we are making the image more sharp and under Blur, This is the kernel we are using, it was all one actually and we are finding the average. We are smoothing things Okay, so the logics are different but they are all called the kernel module So kernel module is our reconfigural module and Sobel, Sharpen and Blur these are the three different modes of that same module so you need to generate netlifts for each one of them and save it in this corresponding folder. Now that again you can do from command line

if you use Vivado command line option we may do later, this time let me use GUI itself so I will start a new project and I will go to one of the folders here let's say necklace folder SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Finish, now we'll keep the previous project open. Okay so our module is here. Now we need to generate netlist for this module. Now if you just go and click Run Synthesize here, he will generate a netlist but it won't be out of context. He will insert buffers here at the input and output of that netlist. So we already discussed like that is problematic so we cannot directly click run from here instead we have to run out of context. So if it is a top module you

can see actually if you right-click here there's an option like set as out of context for synthesis that is not getting highlighted again Vivado only for certain modules he will highlight this option so if this high option is Highlighter, we could have just checked it and we could have run it but since it is not highlighter you cannot run it using GUI. We had to run it using our TicTil script. It's very easy. You can type like synth design then mode out of context top name of the top module cut that's So now he is actually running synthesis in the background.

Okay so he finished running synthesis and if you go to that folder blur, you won't find that DCP file here. So that DCP files comes into.runs folder automatically only if you are running through GUI. If you are running thru TCL script it won't be automatically saved. You have to explicitly ask to save it. So that's what we are going to do. So again, same command. You can say this project, you can say write checkpoint followed by name of the netlist file C So you need to generate the netlist for sharpen as well as Sobel and save the netlist in these two folders.

And their name should be same again, khan.dcp Okay so now I have completed generating netlist for all my modes So I have DCP here for sharpen, DCP here for blur and DCP here for Sobel. Okay so that step is also done Now let's look at the next step Next up is perform flow planning for each reconfurable region. Okay so let's do that. Okay so come here this Vivido, Vivido planning, under that you choose draw P block, partition block. That's what Xilinx they call and now you will be able to draw rectangles in the fabric and that will represent the logical partition and again you notice here, see, FPGA is divided into multiple rows here each one is a

clock region so you can put it any clock region but the height of that region should be one clock region, Even if you draw it as less than one clock region height, Vivado, it will internally convert it into one clock region high. Another thing you need to make sure is the region that you select should contain enough resources to implement a different mode. Whichever mode takes the largest number of resources, we should have those many resources available in the region that you choose here. So I guess we need block RAMs as well as DSPs since we have multiplication and all, so let's choose a region somewhere here. So we have B-RAM here, we have CLBs here everywhere and we have DSP here. So, we can choose somewhere here,

somewhere here or somewhere here also fine okay at this point we are not worried much So finally let me choose somewhere here. So I am going to just drag and draw, okay? And he will ask you which all regions should be included in the region so that you can reconfirm them. So you can uncheck it if you don't want to include some particular kind of resources but we need all of them. So just check all of them and say OK. Now this is slightly extended to next So, you need to check this option, reset after reconfiguration as well as snapping mode, you need to turn it on. Again why snapping mode again requires a lot of explanation at some point I will again explain it because that needs to know again much more low-level architecture details of

Xilinx, some details about switch boxes. So there is a constraint on how wide each region can be also. Okay so even if I say like it should be only this much wide, Vivado might automatically extend it by one more CLB column due to again some internal architecture details at this point yeah you don't want to know it. Okay so anyway check these two options and you'll see So whenever you are doing something, he is automatically showing the corresponding command here. Yeah, so actually everything is happening through TCL commands.

So if you want, you can save these commands to some file so that later point of view, you don't have to do any of this manually. You can just run this script and everything happens just like that. Okay, so do it once you have done this, once you have been done for planning, we have only one PR region. We have only one re-control module. You have to do it only once and go ahead and save it. And this information will be again saved in a constraint file. So we already have a constraint file which is basically saying the pin assembly for our VGA door.

Now you can either save it in the same XTC file, same constraint or let's save it in a different constraint. Okay so let's call it like erconstraint.xtc. So he will save this information in another file. So if you wish, you can go and open and see what he actually saved. He saved the information about your PR region. So he is basically saving the bottom left corner coordinate as well as top right coordinates of that rectangle that we just drew. And that is enough to represent a rectangle. That's what you are seeing here.

And the two properties that we set, reset after reconfiguration, snapping board, that information is also saved here. So, flow planning is done. So next step, combine the netlist for static region and reconfirm module for generating one valid configuration. Okay? So anyway since we are already in a project, we already have the static netlist open here. OK, if you are offering Vivado freshly and you want to do this what you can do is you can reuse this netlist. This is the netlist of the static region which we just saved after synthesis. You can use this netlist but since we already in a project we already synthesized everything using the same project the netlist is already So for that you need to use this command read checkpoint, okay?

This is the command for reading a netlist and combining it with another netlist. Read checkpoint followed by cell, okay? Cell Xilinx instead of calling things as modules they call everything as cell so you're basically saying like I want to read a netlist and insert it to a black box. So you need to tell which black box, which module should be using this particular netlist. So for that again you need to give the entire hierarchy of that module. For get cells followed by the hierarchy. So this is the topmost module in Netlist, system underscore I under that image process underscore zero under that list under that card. Okay so this is the cell it should be using the netlist we

are going to read and where is the netlist let's use you can use one of the So, let's use Sobel. So under Sobel we already have the netlist on the menu.dc. He is now reading that netlist and he combined it with this netlist. If something goes wrong Now he will give like error, he can't combine if the module names are not matching or the interface is not matching Or if the hierarchy that you gave here is wrong all of them will create errors, so we have to do it very carefully And now you can see previously that black, it was black, now it is gone because he combined that netlist with this netlist and now you can expand and you can see like it is no longer a black box.

It has wires and it has also resources. Okay, so that's what you did. After this we need to do one thing which is not in the slide. You need to tell Vivado this is a partially reconfilled module explicitly. If you don't say it, he will run everything. Only thing is he will not give you the partially reconfered bitstream, the bitstream which can be used for changing only this region that he's not going to generate. Okay? For generating that you should explicitly say this is partially reconferal system and that is when he is going to check whether you have license for doing PR or not.

OK, so you click this module and go to Properties. And he will show all the properties of this module. By default that option is not there. You need to add properties under that there will be so-called HD properties, which stands for Hierarchical Design Properties. And that's what we need. OK, let's type HD here. So there is this option. HD, NOT reconfurable. This is basically telling Vivado this is a reconfurable module. So you Vocabulary, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, UART, ILA, ILA-SPF, XS and Route design. You can type one by one or you can type all of them together in some text file and just copy paste it.

So OptiDesign, PlaceDesign and RouteDesign. These are the commands for this and Route. You can type 1 by 1 also here or you can do all of them in one shot. OK, so he has completed his unrode. So now if you zoom in, you can see he has placed and routed everything. You can see resources inside a PRR region by our convolution module. And these are all parts of our static region. And you will see some white boxes here Partition pins, Partition Pins, Partition pins Partition PINS, Partition Pin, Partition pin, Partition So let's do one thing, let's save this netlist also, because this netlist is the based and routed netlist for our configuration work.

Let's go ahead and again do a checkpoint, netlist, config1, let's call it config1, config2, config3, and ROUT, or DCP because it's after placement and ROUT. OK, so that is also done. Place-on-ROUT configuration. Now save the place-on-rout at Netflix for configuration. We have already done. Next remove the reconfuel module portion from this netlist and we will get the place-and-rout at static portion. Why it is needed? Because now we have placed on router one of the modes along with the static region. Next, we want to place on route the static region along with the next mode of the current module.

But the thing to remember there is you do the next round of place on route, placement and route of the static module should not change. does not change across all the configuration, across all the implementation. So what we will do is from this placed on router design, we will remove the portion. So, we will say update design and you need to tell the particular network which you want So we already have that hierarchy here. Okay, so let me say update design, sell our CUN module as Blackbox. Okay, now if you go to our netlist again here and check our CUN it is back to Blackbox.

Lock Design, Level Routing, Always Preserve the Placement and Routing of my Design Now the colors have changed to orange, that means these things are part of static module, static region And their position will not be changing when you run placement and routing next time, it is preserve So we need to save this netlist also. So let me say like write checkpoint, netlist static routing dot TCP. So this netlist I'm going to save in my static folder. So placement routing is coming after placement so it's enough to say like save routing that automatically means save the placement also.

So we have the DCP saved here. Okay so next step is now it is a cyclic, okay? In a loop what you have to do is you have to read the next mode of the module, combine with our static netlist, do placement routing, generate the netlist, again convert it into blackbox, So, let's go ahead and do the Place, and route again. Okay that is also done so again save the netlist, click point, so this time this is our config2, let's say like config2, router.pcp, Group it, put it in the back box again, create the next mode, combine it and connect next.

Again save the netlist for config p, we have config p, config p route.cp. Okay so we have completed this step also now only the final step is remaining so you need to generate the complete pitch stream and partial pitch stream for each Vocabulary, SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, XSct, XSCT-Lite, XS SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Verilog HDL, XS 3.bit is the name of the full bitstream which will reconfigure the entire FPGA including this region and the partial bitstream you'll automatically generate because you have set the HD command for reconfiguration and since I already have the lysos for doing it.

So the name of that bitstream will be a combination of the name of, uh, the full bit stream that Config 3, now you can see two files. This is the full pitch stream which is around 4 MB. This is the partial pitch stream which is only about 465 KB because that is used for reconfiguring only this region. Now we need to generate pitch stream for other two configurations also. So for that first we need to read the place and route at checkpoint. So we need to say open checkpoint and we have them under the list, config1, config1-router.ecpl, so we want to open that netlist and we can now ask to generate the string, so this is config1 and config1. Now once he's done with this we will generate it for config also, so in the GUI you are

So we are only running one bitgen, right bitstream. But if I'm using command line, I can run all three of them in parallel because bitstream generation is independent of each other. Right? So if you have an at least, you can just generate the bitstream. So things will be faster if we do it through scripts, through command line instead of GUI. Maybe later we'll do it. Okay so that's also done. So, we can do this for config also. Open config2 at least and write bitstream for config. Ok, so that's all done. This completes the entire hardware design. We have complete bitstream and the partial bitstream for all three configurations.

configuration, and here also you will notice the size of the partial bit stream, they are all same, 465 because they're all implemented in the same region. The size of this bit stream is directly proportional to the reconfigurable area. The larger the area, the larger will be your partial bit streams also, that means the more will be the time for reconfiguration. So we need to keep the region as small as possible, but get our things done.
