Hello all, so since we completed the hardware design now let's check whether it is really working or not So for that we need to use the SDK also because he's the one who is going to send the image and also as usual you need to go to the same project where you have the block design Because previously each time when you open a DCP Vivado He might have opened it in a new window OK, so you need to come back to the original project where we created that block design and as usual export hardware. No need to include the bitstream and just launch SDK. So we'll start a new application project let's call it PRS, empty application, finish. Now the software that

So the software that we are going to use is more or less same as the software used for image processing, for displaying an image on VGS screen. It's the same software but I have slightly modified it, I will show you. So I am importing it. So I'll give you the source code so you need to import it to your local SDK using the same step. So file system and so you'll have this software directory. So from there import, you need to import including this linker script because we have modified the linker script okay so you say like yes he's going to replace this linker with the linker I'm providing because the heap size is larger here for MLM Okay, so it's the more or less same source code. Our image is in the form of a constant array. This

is Lena grayscale and the difference I have made is previously you were transferring the processed image only once to a buffer and we were just switching back between the original image and the processed image. But currently, since we will be dynamically changing the IP, the convolution part, each time you will have to send the image to our IP, get the processed image and display it back. So this part is additional. Previously only this was there and this image transferring part it was outside the Y-loop now I have put it inside the Y-look that's the only difference.

So the details of this code I have explained in that tutorial where we are interfacing with VGA Ok so now as usual we need to go to run, run configuration Before that let's program our FPGA That will do from Vivado, so let's go to Open target, Auto connect and program device And you need to choose one of the full bitstream for programming For programming, ok? So when you are doing configuration for first time, you will have to choose one of the full pitch stream. Either config 1, 2 or 3, anything is fine. Ok so let's choose config2 which I believe was sharpening.

Ok, config2.bit and let's say program. And yeah now you can see the blue LED is turned on ZedBoard because we programmed it. OK, so let's keep the T Processed Image, OK? So let's try to see the original image. This is the one, the original image of Flena and now let me type 2 process image and this is a processed image. I don't know on your monitor whether you can clearly see it because my camera is not great. These two images are different so this was the original one and this is the sharpened one. You can and see some transition is happening. Second image is more truck than the previous one.

Now let me do one thing, let me change only convolution part using my partial bitstreams. So I'm going back here, I am again choosing program device. So, now I will show you how to do this. And I am going to config 1 which is our Sobel operator but I'm not going to use this complete bitstream. I'm going to change only the convolution part so I am using this partial bitstream and okay and program so few things we need to notice you'll see like it's very fast because The partial bitstream is very small and you will see like that blue part it just blinked for a second, not even a second because the reconfiguration was very fast. So we actually configured our IP with the new convolution portion. Now in the software part I don't have to relaunch

Because my static part is still operational, everything is still working, only thing is I just replaced that convolution part. So he even doesn't have to know about it. Now let's see so this is the original image and when I type you now, you will see like it's not sharpened, it is our edge detection. So our PR is working. Now let us go ahead and let's Change it to Blur operation, so config3, partial-pitch stream, OK program 1. So this is original, this is after averaging from Blur of fixture will be clear when you are doing a UART.

Okay, so our PR is working. Okay, so now let's come to our next issue. So when you really use Based on that, the FPGA should be self reprogramming. Okay? And we will be able to see the output. So for doing that, we'll have to store our partial bitstream to our SD card first. Then we'll have reprogram the FPGAs from that SD card. So how that is done is entirely a different topic. How FPGAs can be partially reconfigured again depending upon the kind of FPGA we have We have many different kind of interfaces, behind interfaces like PCAP, MCAP, ICAP, different kind of interfaces are there. So we'll be first discussing about so-called PCAP interface processor configuration access port which is used by your PS. So this is

a special interface inside the PS and using that interface you will be able to reprogram the FPGA part under software control. So that's what we will discuss in next tutorial. Thank you.
