Hello all, so in the last tutorial we have seen partial reconfiguration in action. So we used the JTAG interface for sending the partial bitstream while our system was running but as I mentioned practically it's difficult to always have JTAG interface between the board and a computer especially when you want a standalone system. So what we need is we need some other way of reconfiguring our chip without the JTAG interface, and there are many ways of doing it depending upon the kind of chip that you have. So for ZYNC family of chips, so ZYNC or ZYNC UltraScale devices, we have an interface called PCAP, processor configuration access port using which you can reconfigure the PL part

of the chip from PS. So if you go to the ZYNC block here, you can see a part called DEW-C this one, device configuration. So this PCAP interface is part of this device configuration block. Device configuration it has some other blocks also but now we are looking at only the PCAP interface. Now again the details of PCAP if you want to know we'll have to look at the technical reference manual DRM under that section for 6.4.3 it discusses about the PCAP bridge between PS and PL okay again you don't have to know all the details here basic idea I will tell you so basically yeah so this is what is interesting for us. Using this PCAP bridge, what you can do is you can read

a bitstream from memory. It can be either OCM on-chip memory, the internal RAM or it can be off-chip memory like our DDR. Okay? So we are going to use the DRAM memory. So what we are going do is initially from SD card, we will transfer the partial bitstream to the external memory DDR and from DDR we will use this interface, the PCAP interface to transfer it to the VL, the FPGA fabric. And he is able to reconfigure the FPGA fabric. So internally PCAP, it has a DMA controller and he's the one who is transferring which came from external memory to the fabric. It is also possible to read back okay so after programming, FPGA if you wish. You can get the pitch stream if it is enabled actually.

You can block it but if it is enable you can read back the configuration information, the pitch stream from the FPGA fabric and send it back to the DRAM also. So in certain cases we are interested in reading the pitch stream back from the FPCA especially to check during Time that you program into the FPGA actually changes during runtime. So if that happens, your chip may behave differently. So what we need to do is time-to-time, we will read back the configuration information from the FPG and we will check if there is any error, if there is an error, we will reprogram it.

Anyway, we are not going to look at it. Our aim is just to reprogram the PL part from our PS. So we are going to use PCAP. So in the hardware design, there is no difference. Your block design nothing changes. You keep as such everything and same step and you generate the bitstream. So that's what we did in the previous tutorial. We already have a partial bitstream. So remember so we have these three folders, config1, config2, config3 and they contain the full link. Now you cannot directly use this.bit file for programming through PCAP because this bit file, it contains not only the configuration information.

It has some header portion also, some header information. So if you open any bitstream, you can see like okay so this is the conduct. So in this speech stream, the actual contour So, this configuration information is starting from here. FF, FF, FF. Okay? So you will see this continuous chain of FF that is where the actual bitstream is starting. Everything before this is again a header information and actually you can see like what is in the header. So header basically has the information about the name of the top module it also has information whether it's a partial bitstream or not it has the information report which Vivado FPGA, FPGA-FPGA-Lite,

This header is required, but when you are sending bitstream directly through the PCAP interface, this header portion should go away. We should have only starting from here. But it's one thing, another thing is the order in which information is stored inside this bitfile and the order in which bytes are expected by PCAP are reversed. For example, again here data is considered always in 32 bits. So in normal bitstream a 32-bit data will be stored like this 000000BB. So 00 is our LS byte and BB is our MS byte. This is we call as a little Indian representation but for PCAP interface the bitstream order So, the first thing you need to do is convert this bitstream into a file with extension.bin which will be understood by the PCAP interface.

When you are trying to get through the PCAP, the bitstream has to follow that bitorder. Now to do all these things, removing this header as well as changing this byte order, Xilinx they provide interface. So we have this command, write config memory. So this write config memory, this command is used not only for preparing bitstream for PCAP, it can be used for preparing bit stream for other non-volatile memory. For example, you can store your bitstream in Flash chip, PPA flash or SPI flash and you can program FPGA from those kind of memory.

For that also we will use the same command. Okay so in this command yeah you need to specify we want it in bin format, format bin and you are saying we are expecting a 32-bit interface again this is kind of dummy when we are aiming for PCAP, just to tell this guy we need 32-bit ordering and this one disabled bit swap okay this will put the bytes in the exact order in which we are expecting it in the bin file so this we needed okay remember to keep it if you are aiming for PCAP interface then you need to say The Bitstream which you want to convert. So this part should be always up 0x0 again for PCAP This doesn't make much sense for other non-volatile memory

You are saying like you want to store bitstream starting from address 0 in the external memory Anyway here we need to put it dummy1 here you specify your input bit file name and here you specify your output bin file name. Okay, so I'm taking this partial bitstream and let me see this is config1 so output bitstream let's call it Sobel.bin. So let me copy this command you can copy that command and come to Vivado and in the tickle if we are giving entire bitstream path yeah you can just execute Anyway, in Vivado you don't have to change directory or anything and just run it.

So let's go to that folder and see here so he has created okay so this is our bin file and if we open it now you can see like it has only FF starting from FF and the order has also changed 0 0 0 0 instead of that now it is BB 0 0 0 So this is how we prepare the bitstream. SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA. We have all the bitstreams here, we have blood.bin, Sobel.bin and Sharp.bin Now we need to copy them to our SD card, so blood.bin and sharp.bin, sobel.bin I'm going to SD card, let me create a new folder here, just to show you can have folders So, PR bits, and I'm keeping from my partial bitstreams So now let's put the SD card back to our board.

So, the main work is in software. In our SDK I already have the project again most of the code is same as that we did previously so the extra thing is I have written this header file and associated source code, cap.h.h and this has all the code for transferring with streams from SVCard to our FPGA fabric. So inside VCAP, this is the header file, DAW config. So this is from Xilinx. This has basically all the functions for managing VCAP. We are just abstracting them. So in this header file, again we have declared a lot of new function. We will see main ones.

And also at the top I have declared the size of the partial bitstream. This is the size of the partial bitsstream that we are going to use for this project. So you check the XSCT size for 75556. That is the size of bitstream. Okay? So for different projects, this size This will change depending upon the size of your PR region and where you have defined the PR region. Again, it was possible to make it dynamic if we do dynamic memory allocation. Okay? So you can dynamically read that file find the size of the partial bit stream file and allocate.

You can do like that also here it is statically declared because this is the buffer used for storing the partial bit string. So this is again statically allocated. Okay, now when you come down we have this function init-pcap and this function will basically initialize the pickup. Again you will see a lot of constant declarations are here. Again if you want to know the details you can look at the technical reference manual. I have also used most of them from Xilinx reference design. So they are basically to enable the internal shift registers and barrel shifters, things like that which manages the clock to PCAP, which manages the clocks from PCAP to FPGA fabric, things like that.

Although there are certain conditions you can control while you're using PCAP whether JATAC should be active, whether you will be able to program through JATAC or you can Our image is again a constant array, it's not from SD card. If you want image data also, you can put in SD card but here we are using it for storing our part of the string and remaining code is exactly same. The difference is here from our previous tutorial okay so previously we were doing reconfiguration through JATAC and here you can see what is happening. So depending upon which filter you choose, we have different cases.

So I can choose either original image, Sobel blur or sharp and depending upon which one So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, Vitis, VDMA, UART, ILA, UART. and this is a function which transfers the partial bitstream from the memory, this buffer to the PCAP and it will be finally used for configuration. So you have to give an instance of device configuration interface which will be actually initialized inside PCAP in it. You will have to give a pointer where the bitstream is sitting, the size of the bitstream and this is the destination address for DMA, and in this case you are sending to PCAP so you can put any value there.

And this one basically says whether you need secure transfer or not, whether your pitch stream is encrypted or not. Personally we are using unencrypted pitch stream so there is no encryption, so you need to pass this parameter okay. And he will do partial reconfiguration. So this one is actually working based on polling, So this guy is checking whether PCAP has transitive stream and he's checking whether reconfiguration operation is completed. If reconfiguration operations are completed, the function will return. Okay? So basically depending upon what kind of filter we want to use, the corresponding partial bitstream we are using to program our FPGA fabric.

And once we have finished partial reconfiguration, we'll call this function. This is our old function, StartImageProcess which will basically transfer this image data to our IP and our IP is already reconfigured. So depending upon what is the current filter used, the output from image processing varies and we take that output and just display it on the screen. Okay so that's what is happening. So here again you can see you have to use forward slash If you are storing your file inside folders or you have to use double backslash like this, either this one Or this one, this one won't work because it's like Linux style and again remember your folder name

that should be also less than eight characters otherwise also it won't work so that's it. So we can now test it on hardware whether it is working or not So run configuration, as usual, you have to check these two options, application is this one, and first time, like previously, we had to program with the full bit stream. OK, so let's program device and let's choose config2 for programming, which I guess is sharp. OK, program, it's programmed. Now let us run. So, in the router you can see the print. So here basically he is asking what you want to see original Sobel Blur sharp, let's type original so on the screen we can see the original one without any processing.

Now let me choose 2 Sobel filter and you can see the output is Sobel. So what just happened? He did partial reconfiguration and he transferred image and we are seeing the image. We are not transferring it through JATAC. So now if I choose Blur, I can see Blur one. If I choose Sharp, I can see the Sharp one. So you can see like it's happening quite fast actually unlike our Jata, PCAP interface gives around 130 Mbps reconfiguration speed. Jata is few 2 or 3 Mbps I remember but this one is much faster so that's You can see pre-configuration and image processing is happening very fast.

Now another important... The feature of PCAP is it can support not only partial reconfiguration, you can reconfigure your entire FPGA fabric using PCAP. You don't need the JATAC at all. So what you have to do? You just put your full bitstream to SD card and when the system boots up, you don't program it from JATAC. You just run the code from SDK and we will use a code which will read your full bitstream from SD card and reconfigure it. Okay, so that's what we are going to try it. So first again you have to choose one of the full bitstreams and convert it into the format that is supported by PCAP.

So let's go here, bitstream config 1, let's choose config 1 itself. So let's take our old command, this one, and instead of choosing this partial bitstream, let's take the full bitstream. We have the full bit stream there, config1.bin, and let me call it full.bin. So we have this bitstream now, full.bin, this is a full bitstream, you can check the size, It is much larger. And we will put that full bitstream to our SD card. Okay, full bitstream here and we will put it back in the board. Now in software you can see at the top I have a line commented out.

Okay so this is the size of the full bitstream. Again we have to check it from here and you can find it, but it's the size of the full bitstream. Now I'm going to allocate that much memory. Okay so this array will be used for storing full as well as partial bitstream since this is larger. Yeah that can definitely store this one also. So i'm putting it there and here you can see I have a function called full reconfigure again it will look similar to have a partial reconfigure function, but we need to do few more configuration for supporting full reconfiguration.

So again details the constant values you can check in the tier of what is actually going on. But this pitch frame, this function it will read the full pitch frame and he will just reconfigure our VGS. So now let's go ahead and test this one. So I have put the SD card back to my board, okay? So I'm powering it off so that previous bit frame goes away. And I'm not going to program it at all now, this time from Vivado. I'm not programming it. I'm just running my SDK. Okay. and this time you will get this warning, Dunpin is not high on target FPGA, do you still want to continue logic the application?

Because the SDK detected that we haven't programmed the FPGA and without programming the FPGA We are trying to run our software and he's actually using some hardware. So he's asking like are you sure? Yes, we are sure because that reprogramming will be happening through PCAP Now if you look at the board now, you will see the blue LED turned on because we actually programmed our FPGA using PCAP Here you can see the print also came. So now we can continue with the partial reconfiguration also This is the advantage of PCAP You can configure your PL from PS, it supports both full reconfiguration as well as partial reconfiguration.

That's the real advantage. Now maybe the slide drawback of PCAP is the throughput, the speed at which it can reconfigure. As I mentioned it's around 130 megabytes per second that's the speed of reconfiguration and our bitstreams if i take the full bitstream this is around 4MB, so you'll still see like it's quite fast but for very high speed application maybe you want to do configuration within few microseconds. So in that case PCAP may not be a good solution. In that case, we may have to go for even a faster. So, that's all for today. Thank you.
