Hello all, so in the previous tutorial we have discussed about the processor configuration access port PCAP which supports partial reconfiguration as well as full reconfiguration. Now the PCAP interface is only available in ZYNC chips okay which has some kind of PS. Now the traditional interface in Xilinx for supporting internal partial reconfigurations is called ICAP, Internal Configuration Export. And this has been the interface from a long time, from five series like WITX 5, WITX 6, and all the seven series, WITX 7, Kintex, Artex.

They all have this internal interface for supporting partial reconfiguration. Now through ICAP interface you can do only partial reconfigurations. It doesn't support full reconfiguration and this is how the interface will look like. So, this guy has a clock, this is like a chip enable and this is like read-write select and this is through which you will send data basically the bitstream. This is the interface through which you'll read back the bitstream as I mentioned before similar to PCAP, this guy also supports reading back bitstream from the FPGA fabric and whether to read or write that is controlled through this interface. So write is low, read is high on this pin and this signal will become high whenever the interface is high and this

is valid only for read operation during write operation this PC will be always low you don't have to worry about it and the other part of the interface it is directly going to the FPGA configuration memory through which it configures the fabric now there are setter conditions so The maximum clock frequency supported by ICAP is 100 MHz and the interface is 32 bits So the maximum reconfiguration speed that you can expect is 400 MB per second Okay, which is much higher than PCAP, which is almost 130 MB per second now I'll show you where exactly so if you go to our FPGA fabric here, so you can see some primitives here, so when I click something he will show what is the type of this. So you can see ICAP X0 Y1, usually

every siding FPGA it will have two ICAP interfaces, so we have one here and we have another one here but at a given point in time only one of them can be So if you want to switch between them, again we have to send some certain sequence of commands to them so that one shuts off and the other becomes active. Anyway, you're not worried about it. Another thing usually when we are using PCAP and ICAP only one of them should be enabled at a time. So that we will do from software as far as ZYNG is concerned. Otherwise, VGS there is no VCAP interface so no need to worry you can always use ICAP interface for supporting partially configuration.

Now signings they used to provide an IP core which contains this ICAP interface because you can see like it doesn't follow any standard interface okay so they used to have an AXI-Lite IP, Xilinx hardware, ICAP, I guess, and which used to instantiate this primitive directly inside the code. You can directly instantiate it. You will get the instantiation template for this IP and we can directly instantiated. So if you want to get the instantiations template, we can go to two language templates. Here you can get instantiation template of a lot of primitives.

For example, WANDA buffer or something you don't know how to instantiate it, you can say Buff G, Global Clock Buffer, this is the clock buffer through which the clock signal will be routed things like that. So I can get ICAP over here, this is not coming as a IP core, it's coming as an instantiation template, so this is the instantiation template for ICAP, so this you can directly instantiate it in your code If you want to. Now what Xilinx did was they used to provide an IP core, I guess it is still there. It's one, XC hardware IP which follows the XC-Lite interface you can see through which you can interface with the processor system. Now this is an XC-lite interface that means You need to write word by word to this IP.

So although this guy supports 400 Mbps reconfiguration speed, the actual throughput of this IP, AXI hardware ICAP was very, very low. So I have developed one of the IP cores by myself. Again no big deal. It is basically an IP which instantiates this hardware ICAP with a DMA controller so that we can have very high-speed reconfiguration. So again that was published back in 2014. It was called Zicap to indicate this is an ICAP IP for Zynq, but of course you can use it with other processes also. If you want interface with Microplace that is also possible so you can see the throughput.

So PCAP is around 128 and the one provided by Xilinx it was giving only 19 mbps and this IP which has an internal DMA controller and it has an AXI-Lite interface for configuration as well as XSCT, XSCT-XSCT, SCSCT, ILA, XS and you can freely use it. Now Xicap, it is not only this IP, it comes with an associated driver and it has a lot of features like it can prefetch bitstream from SD card to your memory, you know like in memory you have to allocate memory for storing this bitstream now if you have a lot of bitstream you may need a lot of memory okay for each partial bitstream that So what this guy does is he will cache the bitstream from SD card and whenever you fetch a new bitstream

from the SD card provided there is no more memory allocated for storing the bitstream, he will replace the least recently used bitstream with this new bitstream. So some kind of caching supports things like that are there. And this can also support execution in parallel with reconfiguration. I will show you when we write the software. That means while the FPGA undergoes reconfiguration, your processor can still do other processes or the remaining portion of the FPGAs can still operate. So we'll have overlapped reconfiguration with execution that will actually improve the overall system performance.

There are some features to support this. OK, so now for the external design I am using the same block design that we used last time, the same image processing IP1. Only thing is interfacing my Zicap also to the system. So what I did was yeah, so to the local IP core with a tree I have added this IP also, Zicap IP, IP and I have integrated it with the system. Okay so this is basically the same system as before only difference is we have ZYCAP okay so this is our ZYCAP IP so you can see it has a actually light interface which will be eventually connected to the GP port and it also has a stream interface which is actually connected to HP1 interface here high-performance one

Why I chose a different phase? Because as I mentioned before, ICAP or ZYCAP, it can work only at 100 MHz or below. And the remainder of the circuit system in our image processing, it is working at 148 MHz, 148 MHz. So if you directly connect that clock here, it is not going to work. So that's a physical level restriction, it cannot work more than 100 MHz. So I have taken another 100 MHz clock directly from the PS, you can see this clock 0 was 100 but that I'm giving to the clocking wizard here to generate the other clock.

It won't be a good idea to take a connection from here to getting 100 MHz, that's a bad You can either create one more clock here which gives 100 MHz, but this IP cannot give 100 MHz. The reason I have mentioned before from 100, he is generating 148, so he cannot generate 100 due to some restrictions of the PLL. So I am creating a fresh 100 MHz clock from the PS itself and that clock is coming through FCL, clock 1 interface. SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, UART, VDMA, UART. single HP port. Okay, so that's the only difference otherwise the system is the same in all other aspects. Now the thing is since I changed my block design for generating the partial reconfiguration

things like that we will have to go through the same entire steps that we followed in the previous tutorial you have to synthesize the static region you have to synthesis the PR module then combine them things like that okay now it consumes a lot of time so what I have done is for example I already have the floor planning constraints from the previous tutorial so I don't want to change the floor planning because it's the same module which I am trying to reconfigure and these properties like it is a reconferal module and we need to reset after reconfiguration all those information I already have in my constraints file, this XTC file.

Now provided that you already have the floor planning information, instead of sitting and giving commands one by one, I can just execute a single tickle script and it will do all the process for you. So these script tools I will upload so you can also do it. So if you look at my project directory now, let me close this project also. What basically I need are my project which has that block design things like that. I have the netlist folder with a netlist for my three modes of my convolution part and IP core directory, Image processor, IP, XSCT, XSct, ZYCAP, and the sources folder, where I have my constraints here, the two constraints file as well as the block design.

So block design is actually sitting here, this.bd file. Now this much is enough and I can directly execute my TCL script. So I will upload this project as such, you can directly run it. The only possible difference is if the project version is different, you'll have to open the project and you have to do report IP status and you need to upgrade all the IPs to your version of Vivado whether 2018 or 2019 which version you are using and save the project, close it then you can also run the same script. OK, so this is the script we are going to use.

And you can see what it basically does. So it just opens your project and it sets up what is your target device and all. This is our target chip. And these are like his synthesis settings. So depending upon the Vivado, you just give you a Vivado version here. I am using 2017 now. So I'm keeping 2017 and do you give whatever version you have? This generates target, this is the one which generates all the files corresponding to the IP core. Right? You remember like when you generate IP there is an option like generate all targets.

So this is doing same thing so he generates all the Verilog and VHDL files for your IPs, all the IPs. Now this one it will generate the... this one, this will generate your. SDK folder. This is same as exporting to SDK. So this guy will export to SDK. Okay, so let me keep local reference. He will create this folder,.sdk, then your HDF. Hardware definition file is exported there. Then he just runs the synthesis. After synthesis, he saves the Netflix for static in the Netflix folder. Then here it's the DCP file, Netlist for one of the reconfiero module. Here it's Sobel.

Here you can see. Then opt-place route after that he says the netlist. He makes it again blackbox. So same steps that we did in previous tutorial and they are just in critical script format. Okay so that's one thing and towards the end you will see okay this I guess you remember from and go to the tickle, what is it? Tab and you can run it. Okay, so don't open the project and run it because he'll give error saying like project is already opened or you just comment this line out when you are running it from the project. I will show you both. So if you're running from command prompt or shell in your Linux, okay, you go to the folder where UART is running in VIDO mode, hyphen source and script name, PRscript.il.

Now, if your Vivado is configured in your system path, this will directly run. For me the Vivado in my system path is version 2018. So let me give the full path to Vivado. C-Silinx, Vivado, I'm using this one, Bin, Vivado. This is where Vivado is sitting. More TCL, hyphen source, Viascript.lyt. Vivado, Vivado, Vivado, VIVATO, VIBADO, mentioned is wrong, it is 2014.2. If the versions are not matching within the project and the Vivado that you're using here, you will get this same error so you just type exit to come out of the tickle mode and again rerun. Now this time everything work. It may take maybe 45-50 minutes but the good thing is you don't have to be with your computer, you can go

and do your job and he will finish everything for you by the time you come back. Okay, so I'll come back once he finishes everything. So now Vivado has completed everything. It took some time but still he has finished everything. Now if you go back, now you will see like he has automatically created this bitstream folder and he has also created these folders inside our netlist okay So he has saved the static DCP files here and the different DCPs for each configuration here. Now in bitstream, this is the complete bitstream bitfile and this is the bin file for this complete bitstream, okay. And this is a partial bitstream.

So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, Vitis, VDMA, UART, ILA, ILA. You will also see he created that.sdk folder and the system wrapper hdf file is already exported. So because of that we can directly start our software development. You can directly go to SDK, start SDK and give your workspace as this folder or from Vivado you can launch SDK and say launch locally. Both will work. SDK, I'm again starting a new project. Let's call it ZyCapS. I already have the code written, so I'll just import it here. Importing all of them including the linker script. Again most of them we are just reusing our previous code. Okay.

Here compiler will come because this FF.h so we need to add the project, I mean add the library here okay so it's been observed that this FAT library from Xilinx that keeps on changing with different versions of SDK so maybe you may get some that much memory for caching the bitstream. So if you try to read a new bitstream which is not already cached, he'll replace it with LRU bitstream, it's recently used. This is the size of partial bitstream. That is this one which we can already see here. OK, so this one. This will be same as previous project because it's the same reconferal region. So this one, dot size on disk you need to check this size actually,

4, 7, 5, 5, 6, okay and this is the base address so only these two things you may want to even this one you can keep as such this one you may have to change depending upon the project that you're working In the.c file, we have a lot of functions for initialization of XICAP and caching algorithm that is also there. So all these are part of that caching algorithm. Intro handler this can again work either in intro mode or in polling mode also and a lot SoC, Vitis, VDMA, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-S So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, Zynx, ZynQ, SoC, Vivado, Vitis, ZynX, Zynxt, Zyn SoC, so that your ICAP is the active interface for partial reconfiguration.

That's it. Now the top file, this one, it's more or less same as before for PCAP. Only difference is instead of calling PCAP for partial reconfuration we'll be calling ICAP for partial re-configuration. So this function config p up with stream. So let me write like Sobel.bin, Ver.bin and Sharp.bin. Okay depending upon the choice we are just passing that stream and he will do the configuration. So you'll see the name of the partial bitstream here. The second one is basically telling whether this function should be blocking or non-blocking.

So remember last time when I showed the paper, I mentioned this has the feature of concurrent execution and reconfiguration. So if you set this bit to 1 that means this function will return only after finishing partial reconfiguration, if you put it 0 he'll call the function and he'll immediately come back but reconfiguration might not be completed. Now here are the advantages since the function immediately comes back your processor can do some other job and before he uses the module which is being reconfigured, he's supposed to call this function, which one? This one, sync so that he'll make sure the reconfiguration is completed. Now if you set this bit to 1, this function is called inside its reconfiguration

function itself. So you can see like, he checks this parameter and if that parameter is 1, he himself calls this function. So this function, he's just waiting for this bit to set, TX done, which is basically set by the interrupt handler for transferring the bit strip. Okay? So in our case since we want to do image processing and we can't do image processing unless the partial configuration is over, so we always keep it one. Okay, so that's it in the software part. Now let's put our partial bitstream to our SD card.

So we have config1, so these are the partial bitstreams, so let me just rename them. So this is config1 which is Sobel, dotbin, we can put that here. This is sharp, this is better. OK, so we take SD card now, put it in the board and we test it. So run, run configuration, let's configure. Again here first we need to configure with the full bit stream. So let me choose this config2.bit stream and that's program. Because I have Kizheppatt support full reconfiguration. So full reconfigurations you need to do with JTAG.

Then we can run it from here. Okay, let me run and we have our menu like before. So let's try to test one by one so one will give me the original picture to yeah he did partial reconfiguration and we have the output three and four okay. I claim as our PCAP, but the thing is ICAP is much faster, as I mentioned before, like three times faster than PCAP. So with this we will conclude our discussion on partial reconfiguration In new chips, they are coming from Xilinx UltraScale and UltraScale Plus devices. They have one more reconfiguration interface called MCAP.

Now, Zynq doesn't have it. So through MCAP, it is actually possible to send you a bit stream through PC Express and configure it. Now I have, I want IP to do it for other FPGAs. Again, we may discuss it later. For those who are interested, you can check it out. It's called direct IP. You can search for the paper. So that's also an open source IP core which supports VCS press based partially configuration. Okay. Thank you. See in next tutorial.
