So in the next few tutorials we will be discussing about implementation of neural networks on FPGAs and specifically on the ZYNC platform. I'm not going to discuss the basics of neural network, I hope many of you know about it. Those who do not know about it maybe you can visit some tutorial especially this website is quite good one neuralnetworksanddeeplearning.com. This is where I learned about neural networks for the first time. So it gives a detailed tutorial and it also gives an example of neural network, how we can detect handwritten digits using neural network.

For that they will be using a dataset called the MNIST dataset and they are also giving lot of python code which can do it for you. So this gives good background information. So I guess you will go through it, those who do not have background on neural network and get a brief idea about what neural network is. You don't have to understand all the lower-level details but it will be good if you can understand when I say like training or back propagation, activation function some of these terminologies you will be able to find from this one.

I am not assuming any particular map background that is required for neural network when we do it on FPGAs because we will be reusing lot of concepts from this software implementation. So even if you don't understand all the map behind it, especially the training part, the back propagation algorithm, it is still fine. So in this first tutorial, I'm again just going to give you background. What are the important concepts when we are targeting a hardware implementation of neural network? How it is different from this software implementation that is the main focus in this first tutorials and in the subsequent one, we will be looking at the actual coding and verification.

So we are beginning with a fully connected neural network. and what is a fully connected neural network, we can read in that website or here I have the picture. So in a fully connected Neural Network you will see like every neuron in a particular layer is connected with every other neuron in the previous layer. Okay so this is like a four layer neural network, We have input layer, output layer and two hidden layers and every neuron in this hidden layers as well as the output layer is connected with every neuron in the previous layer.

That is what we call as a fully connected neural network, this is also a feed forward neural network that means the information it always goes only in one direction from input layer towards the output layer there is no feedback from one layer to the previous layer so we have other kind of neural network like a recurring neural network where we have feedback mechanism that we may discuss in later one. So this is the simplest neural network but for many applications these neural networks are quite useful. Now as I mentioned before when we usually design a neural network there is a part called the training of the neural network where you have to decide what are the different weights as well as the biases for the neurons involved in the neural

Network. Now, when we go for hardware implementation, especially FPGA implementation, in most cases we'll be using pre-trained network that means we are not going to do this training part in hardware instead of that will be doing the training in software, we get these biases and weight values then we use those values to design the hardware. Now there are many reasons why we are not doing training in hardware you know one of the most important and one is for building a circuit which actually does training, we need a lot of resources.

And algorithms like back-propagation algorithm which has differential terms and all that is not very hardware friendly. It's quite difficult to implement. And even if you implemented as I mentioned, we need lot of hardware to do it. And in most cases, we have to do training only once for a particular neural network. So if you do it in hardware, again that is a resource wastage after training. We don't need that part of the circuit so it remains there which is a lot of resources finally which will be consuming more power and in many applications this training is not a time critical thing because one motivation for using hardware for neural network is for acceleration to do things faster.

Now training is not a part of it right? You do training once, it doesn't matter how much time it takes maybe one- So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. implementation. Now another important issue when you go for hardware implementation is how you are going to represent numbers in hardware for neural network. Now the input of the neural network, they are usually posty numbers so these inputs can be pixel values or sound sample depending upon what kind of neural network you are building. In most cases these inputs 32-bit representation, we call it as a single precision implementation or 64-bit implementation called the double precision implementation.

Based on whether 32 or 64 you will have more precision, you can represent larger number. That is one choice. The other choice is called a fixed point representation of the numbers. So these are the two choices. Now floating point representation, you can look at those who haven't seen it before how Numbers are represented in floating point using IEEE standard. Now the advantage here is using IEEE format you can represent very large numbers using floating point, 32 bit or 64 bit and the challenge here is the implementation and manipulation of floating point numbers are very difficult okay. In this representation you cannot just go ahead and just add two numbers if you We have to do some operations before you can add numbers together.

Addition is especially challenging, maybe multiplication is easier in IEEE representation. And for doing all these manipulations again we need a lot of hardware that is the main challenge. So if you go for IEEE representation, the number of neurons that you may be able to implement in a low-end chip like the ZYNC20 chip in our ZedBoard. It may be a few tens of neurons, that's all you can implement. But for a practical neural network implementation, you may need maybe hundreds of neurons, okay? So that's why we don't prefer floating point representation because of the resource consumption. So we'll be going with so called the fixed point representation for representing all the numbers

and in neural network, again mostly the input to the neural network will be always normalized either between 0 to 1 if they are always positive. If they are negative you'll normalize them always between minus one to one plus one so it's okay to go with fixed point representation because the range of numbers uh are not that huge yeah that is one advantage of uh i to clear up representation, you can represent very large number. But here we usually donate very large numbers, small numbers are good enough so fixed point representation also. But the small drawback of fixed point representation is the laws of accuracy I will show you with an example because of the fixed point representation that may bring a slight error in the calculation maybe

You are going to represent the number and out of these Vocabulary, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-Site, XSct, SD card. The fraction point, 0.84. So this is what we call as a fixed point. So the position of this point, the decimal point, is always fixed here. It is always after 5 bits. That's why we call it as a fixed-point representation. Now in floating point representation, the position of this decimal point is not fixed for any number. It moves around depending upon the number you want to represent. That's why we call it floating point. The point is floating. Now in this representation, okay, so this number is supposed to represent 0.84 but if I really look what it represents,

it doesn't represent 0.85, it is actually representing 0.83984375 in decimal. So there is a Error induced which is like 0.00015625, that much error is induced which is quite small if you see it is less than 2 to the power of 10 to the power minus 4 percentage. So if you look at a standalone number that is fine but especially in neural network kind of scenarios where you keep on Multiplying and Adding Numbers, these error will accumulate and it may affect our performance. So we need to choose our representation especially total number of bits and how many bits for integer and fractional part very carefully.

For that we should be aware of what is the range of the input that we are expecting, what is the range weights, what is the ranges of biases based on that we'll have to choose the appropriate representation. The same example as before, if I choose like 10 bits for representing my number out of that 5 bits for integer and 5 bits for fractional, same 15.84 will look something like this. And this again represents 15 and this fraction part is only representing 0.8125 instead of 0.84, so now you will see like the error is increasing okay so basically the more number you have to represent the fractional part the more accuracy you will have and of course you should have enough bits to represent the largest

integer part that you are expecting so by fixing the number of bits what you are basically doing is a trade-off between the accuracy and resource utilization okay So the larger the total number of bits that you are going to use, the more will be the actual resource utilization. But better will be the accuracy, the smaller, vice versa. Now as I mentioned before, inputs are generally positive but your weights and biases may be positive or negative so there should be some way to represent negative numbers also. So traditional digital circuit like you can either go for sine magnitude representation or 2's complement representation. Okay, I guess most of you are aware of these two representations.

So in sine magnitude representation the most significant bit, the leftmost bit it will represent the sign if it is 0 that represents its supposed number, if it is 1 it's a negative number and remaining n bits will represent integer part and some m bits will represent the fractional part same 0-1, I have minus 15. So, that is a posty number. And other advantage of course you can go ahead and read about it. Two-skomplement because obviously it's not a course on digital circuit design. I'm not going into that. Oh look here so again in two-skompliment representation plus 15 will 15.839 it will look exactly same as before but minus 15 point it will look something like this

But by looking at this bit, I can say this is a negative number. So I will write negative. Now to really find the number, I'll have to take 2's complement of this number. So you flip all the bits and add 1 to that and you will be getting this number. This is the one which is representing minus 15 point. For addition as well as subtraction, which is basically addition only, 2's complement representation is very efficient. But for multiplication, 2's complement may not be very efficient because again if you multiply two 2's complement numbers it doesn't guarantee the result will be also in 2's complement format okay so we'll have to do some manipulation there

so that the result also follows 2's complement we'll see it when we do the coding. So that's support, number representation. Final thing is on the activation functions which we'll be using inside our neurons. And many neural networks, the neurons are using nonlinear activation functions. The recent one like Relyu and old they are linear one but many neural networks again our example will be using the nonlinear one in that website also you will see they are using non-linear one which is a sigmoid function with this representation 1 by 1 plus E2R of minus X or sometimes we use hyperbolic tangent function also with this representation.

So these are non-linear one and if you try to really implement them in digital that's very challenging. You may see research papers which are proposed to do this in digital domain using Tyler series and all of these are not very practical. Again, main challenge is resource utilization. You may be able to implement it, but just one neuron is not enough for you. You maybe need hundreds of neurons and you won't be able to share this implementation among multiple neurons. So that will take a lot of resources. Again, you won't have many neurons inside our Zynq chip.

So that's why we go with the so-called lookup table implementation. Again, this lookup table don't confuse with FPGA lookup table which is a basic building block of FPGAs. This lookup table alerts. This is a very popular technique in digital design as well as in software design also. So what you do is you pre-calculate these values 1 by 1 plus e to power of minus X for different values of X. So for doing it, you should again have some idea about the range of X. So the input, so you should have some idea what is the range of x based on that you pre-calculate all the values of it and you represent it using our two complement format or signed magnitude format, whatever we choose in binary and we store it in some ROM.

And the address plus to this ROM will be this X. So when we give X to that ROM he will give me the pre-calculated value whether it is sigmoid or hyperbolic tangent, whatever it is. So these rooms are what are called as lookup tables here, LUTs. Again we will see in coding how it is done. Another last topic is about using IP cores when we are going to design our neural network. So we generally won't instantiate, especially in my sample case. We are not going to use any Xilinx IP core directly. That is mainly to make our design more flexible because if you use Xilinx and IP core and if you want to change some parameter ‐ for example, I used a lookup table for implementing

The activation function later I decided like, okay the size of the lookup table is not enough I need to increase the size you cannot just change it by changing a parameter in Verilog instead of that you will have to go to this Xilinx core generator and you will have to change it in the.xca file. So that makes our code not very flexible That also make our code not Very portable for example if it isn't pure Verilog You can implement the same neural networks in Intel FPGA or Lattice FPGA also. You don't have to go through their core instantiation or something like that.

It becomes very portable across any FPGA, or even for ASIC implementation. So that's why we are not going to use any Xilinx IP core. But these Xilinx RP cores are very efficient in implementing hardware. For example, again if I take the example of Lookup Table, We have two choices, we can build them either using Blockram, which are the built-in primitives inside Xilinx FPGAs or you can build it using so called the distributor tram, which is basically built by combining lookup tables and flip-flops. Now blockrams their clock performance is much, much higher than distributor tram and we usually prefer blockrams for implementing these kind of

So what you need to do is we need to follow certain coding style so that Vivado automatically understands that I am trying to infer this particular primitive. So if you follow that coding style, he will automatically instantiate block RAM, he will automatically instantiate DSP slices etc. So again that's still also we will see when we do the coding. Okay, so that's all in this introduction. So in the next tutorial we'll start our coding. Thank you.
