Hello all. So in this tutorial we will start the design of our neural network. So first of all, we are going to design a basic neuron which is the basic building block of a neural network. So again I am referring to that same website here. So this is the general architecture of a neuron so you can see many inputs come to the neuron. So these inputs again depending upon and the neural network, so this is a very simple application. It can be some pixel value, it can be some sound sample things like that. And what the neuron basically does is it will multiply each of these inputs with a corresponding weight value and add them together and add a so called the bias value to that and finally apply it to an activation function

and gives us the output, okay? So that's what is represented here. Assuming it is using a sigmoid activation function the output is 1 by 1 plus e to power of minus z and where z will be this value W dot x This is a dot product, that means each input is multiplied with the corresponding weight and add the bias. Bias can be positive or negative, so add with the bias and give us the output. This is what basically anyone does. So you can see like the architecture it is very hardware friendly especially this dot product because you can do these multiplication and addition in parallel in hardware. So it is supposed to be much faster than software, but we'll have to do some kind

of trade-off here because many neurons, it may have hundreds of input. For example, we are going to again implement the neural network for MNIST dataset and neurons in the first layer in the MNIST is going to take 784 inputs. Okay? That means if in hardware design when and you are designing it as a module, you will have 784 inputs for representing the input. And each input again that's not one bit depending upon our fixed point representation, depending upon the value for X, it may be like 10 bits or 32 bits whatever it is.

So those many wires are coming here and if you try to do that multiplication and addition in parallel, that is going to give us a big combinational circuit. OK, so you may be doing things in parallel but the maximum clock frequency at which you will be operating will be solo that you won't get any special advantage. So to avoid it we'll have to make things little bit sequential. Not only that, we want to make a design in such a way that it is quite scalable. I should be able to use the same neuron design irrespective of the number of inputs.

That design I should be used with 2 input, 10 input, 100 input, 1000 input. Any number of input I don't want to change the design of my neuron. In our hardware implementation you will see that the interface will look slightly different. But otherwise, internally the operation is same. We will do the multiplication and addition operation, basically MAC operation, multiply, accumulate, and we will add with the bias and apply it to the sigmoid function. Okay so the architecture of the neuron that we are going to design is shown in this picture. Now I will show you the code so that we can have one-to-one correspondence.

So whenever you look at the code, look at this picture also so that you clearly understand What is happening? So you can see the main components here. So we are going to use a memory called a weight memory for storing the weight value, okay. Now the depth of the memory will depend upon number of input coming to the neural. So each location in the memory will represent a weight value corresponding to that particular input. Now this you can implement either as a ROM, or assay RAM. That means again as I mentioned before we are going to use pre-trained network so the weight values will be already available so you can just store it in a ROM and you never want

to change it or again for flexibility you can have some provision where this is like more like a RAM and you can store the weight values here and later if you want to change you'll be able to do it So I will show you both. So both are supported in our design and this is where our input is going to come and I have a delay here why it is that I will explain and here is the multiplication of pressure we are multiplying each weight with the cardstock. So, if I directly show you the code then let's try to find out what is happening.

Okay. So this is the code for our neuron, for a single neuron. It's highly parametric most of the things are parametrized and as we go along I guess we'll have better idea what each parameter is doing okay. So first thing I would like to show is this memory for storing our weights so you So this value depends upon how many weights you have. Also a number of weights actually depends upon the number of inputs to your neural network. So these things will be configured from the topmost level module, like how many weights are for each neuron.

So here it is written like 3, need not be 3 because on the top module it is 784. So this value depends upon the particular application we are going to look at so that you can forget for the time being what is the exact value but overall idea is this, you can configure the width here and you can configure the depth here through this parameter. And this is the part which is basically deciding whether this will act like a RAM or a ROM. So we have a parameter here called pre-trained. It is a defined value which is stored in this include file again I guess in previous tutorials we have never used this include file so again coming from our C-site, so you can show you that file forget about everything only look at this one

So we are defining a pre-tried, a TIC defined pre-tread. So if you define that this will act more like say a ROM, If that is not defined it will add more or less like a RAM. So you can see like there are two parts here which only one of them will be true depending upon the condition that we have written here. Now if it is behaving as a ROM, this is what we are going to do. This $readmemb, that is a Verilog system task, predefined task, predefined function which can be used for initializing a memory in Verilog. So we already have a memory here, two-dimensional memory that Something signing specific, it stands for memory initialization file but that extension really

doesn't matter. You can call it by whatever extension and even if there is no extension it is perfectly fine. What is important is if you are writing it as readmemb B, that means the contact of the file should be in binary format. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, VDMA, UART, ILA, ILA. 3, this is again fixed point representation. How many bits are there and all we will discuss later but you can see like there are 784 because this particular neuron it is going to be the first neuron in our MNIST neural network okay and neurons in the first layer in MNIST it needs 784 input. So there will be 784 weights. So those weights are already stored here, 784 values and what he does is he'll take these 784 values and he will just initialize it,

initialize this memory using that file. That is what is happening if we define it as pre-trained. If it is not defined as pre-tried, that means the values to the memory will be stored by some external circuitry that is what is written here which is like our normal RAM. So we have write address, address bus and we have write data this is the write data and we have right enable which is like valid signal so whenever a valid signal is coming whatever input is coming we will store it in the memory and we will increment this also. That incrementing will and if there is read enable, he will just take that value from the memory and he gives it out.

Now here this coding style is important so remember in the presentation I said like we prefer block RAMs for memory implementation okay now same logic maybe I can write it in combinational circuit something like this always at star if read enable writeout equal to this one else WL is 0, this is perfectly fine. If you don't write this one that is a latch inference so we need to write the else case also anyway though so this represents a combination circuit that means you don't have read latency as soon as read enable comes we will get the output but in the previous case this is sequential block RAM. If you want to infer a block RAM, the output should be always sequential like this.

Normally he will do it. Okay? That's an important thing to remember. Okay so now let's go back to our neural. So that wake memory is what is instantiated here. Now let's see how exactly those weights get stored there provided Our neural network is not pre-trained. So you can see our writer address is here, let's look at that logic here, this is the logic which is basically doing it. So at the top you can see we have these signals again coming from the module on top of this neuron which we will discuss later. We have signals called weight-valid which is basically saying The input weight is a valid weight and we have a weight value.

So these are the values which will get stored in that neuron. So you can see the logic here. So at reset, we have this write address it is initialized with all ones. Again why it is so? That is because of the particular logic used here. So you can see whenever we are writing the write address going to the neuron is current value plus 1 so the initial weight I need to store it in 0 so, for that logic to work the initial value of write address should be all ones. Then only all ones plus one will become zero and again since this is parameterized what is the width of write address is not fixed you can see here so width of write address is simply written as address width minus 1 and what is this value?

This value is log of number of weights and this number of weight is a parameter. $ZLog2 is a weightlog task which will find the log of this number to the base of 2. So, the width of the address bus for addressing this weight memory should be log of number of weights, right? Yeah, like we usually use. So, this guy will calculate that value and based on that value, right address is calculated. Now again these are done statically, that means at runtime You cannot change this parameter, ok? These are statically expanded by Vivado when he analyzes your code.

So 784 is a constant from that you will find this value, from that you'll find this value. But when I write the code, I cannot directly write here like address width. How am I going to write it? All of them should be 1, okay? So this is the trick in Virlog, those who haven't seen before to initialize everything to 1 using the concatenation operator. So this basically means replicate one bit one these many times, which basically means all the bits of write address will be initialized to 1. For 0 maybe you can just write 0 here it will just work but if you want everything to be 1 we have to do something like this When you don't know the exact width, if you really know like it's always 32 bit maybe you can write 32 tick

hffff something like that but here since we don't know what is it because it's not always a constant you'll have to do something like that now after that yeah whenever there is a valid weight coming from external world and that is intended for this particular neuron again we have hundreds of neuron So each neuron will be uniquely identified by few parameter. One is what is the layer in which this neuron is present first layer, second layer third layer whatever layer number and what is the particular number of this neuron in that particular layer okay based on these two parameters we will uniquely identify each neuron for example this neuron is in layer one and this is the first

This neuron is in layer 2, first neuron. This is in layer to third neuron. Like that each neuron will be assigned a unique number. Again that happens from the top here you can see their number, neural number, the default values but will be configured by the module on top of it. So if so you can say like this weight bus it is a shared bus among all the neurons all of them get the same weight value and weight valid signals but based on this parameter and this parameter a particular neuron is addressed. If that is the value, yeah.

That weight value will go to WN which is basically going to our weight memory. Weight value will become 1, write enable and write address will be incremented by 1. Yeah since we are starting with all one first weight will go to all ones plus one to zero which makes sense. Okay so that is what is shown here. So weight value is coming I'm not showing the control signals but it ultimately gets and the output from the weight memory is called W underscore out, weight memory out this one. The next what we have to do? We have to multiply this W out with the input. So first we will configure the weight and later at some point we will have the input values coming which

I am following my input and there is a value signal also to indicate this is a valid input, okay? This one. So as I mentioned before it doesn't matter how many inputs a neuron has it has only one input bus so input values will come one after the other so if you have 784 input first input will come then second input will come so on and so forth sequentially for each neural network. So whenever your input is coming, that input should be multiplied by the corresponding weight. Now, remember our weight memory. We wrote it sequentially. That means it has one clock delay, one clock latency. So because of that this input is also delayed by one clock you can

see here then it is multiplied with the output of the weight memory. Okay now you can see each weight will be multiplied by the corresponding input first weight by first input second and wait by second input, so on and so forth. And here you can see this task again, dollar signed, it's very important in this implementation we are going to use two's complement representation for all the numbers. Now in two's complement representations if you just multiply two numbers the output won't be two's complement as I mentioned before.

So we need to tell Vivado or whatever implementation tool that we are doing signed multiplication, so use the appropriate circuit to do it. So what he does is our normal rules if both the positive output will be positive, if one of them is negative, the output will be negative. So he will make the appropriate circuit. You will configure the DSP slicers appropriately so that this result, MUL which is in our figure this one, MUL will represent the signed multiplication result of the weight and input. That's it. So we multiplied it.

Okay? So what's the next one? This multiplied value, so this is a multiply and accumulate operation now. Inputs will be coming. Keep Multiplying and Add it with the previous research. That part is happening here, that addition part, and it appears a little bit complicated. Let me explain what is going on here. First part is easy. Whenever a reset comes or whenever this neuron gives out the output, final output after activation, This sum will be reset to 0, okay? Makes sense. Now these are the other cases, okay? Let's look at the normal case here. This is a normal case. During normal multiplication what happens?

So one possibility is that when you do this multiplication and addition overflow may happen or sometimes underflow may also happen. Okay, so what I mean is okay to clarify it let's look at this picture. So here see what is happening. So here you can see a circuit called combo add. So what combo add does is it adds the current, this multiplication result with the previous sum, this sum. So he's adding them together and you get this combo add. So what is the condition written here? If look at this bit, so this bit is 2 times data width minus 1 that represent the leftmost bit of MUL. That is the leftmost of this guy. If that is 0, that means in sign representation, this is a posterior number and sum is 0. Okay.

So where is the sum? That is this one, the previous sum. That means both multiplication and the previous sum they are positive and combo add that is representing the current addition between this multiplication and this sum. And its MSB is 1. So again in sign representation that represents a negative number. So what it basically says is when you add two positive numbers and when the result is negative, that means something went wrong. When you add two BOSTE numbers, you are supposed to get a BOSTE number. And if you get a negative number, that means an all flow has happened.

That means the output number is greater than what can be represented using these many bits. In that case, you need to saturate the output. The output sum should be less than the maximum value. So that's what you can see. The sine bit of sum is made 0. That means it's a positive number and all the remaining bits of the sum is made 1 which is the largest positive number. Okay? Again we need to refer to this picture to get a clear picture. So sum is the overall SoC, Vitis, Vitis-Lite, ILA, ILA-SPF, XSCT, ILA. The other thing can also happen. See here. So, MSPIT is 1. That means it's a negative number. Some MSPITs are 1. That's also a negative number. But combo add when you added them

here the MSPITis 0. That means you got a positive number. When you add a two negative numbers you got a posty number again something went wrong that is when underflow happens The output number is so small that it cannot be represented using these many bits. That means you need to latch this output to the smallest value, okay? That is what is done here. The sine bit is 1 and all remaining bits are 0. That represents the smallest number in two's convolutional representation. So this is for taking care of the off-low and underflow cases.

If they are not happening, this sum will just represent combo add. So combo add is basically 1 plus sum same as this picture, 1 plus previous sum. You accumulate them. That is what this part is happening and that is the usual case when you are doing multiplication. Now, a special case happens when you are doing the last multiplication and addition. So in the last case what you need to do is you need to add with bias so you can see here. So generally we add the output of this multiplier with sum but in the last So in this case, once you have done all multiplication accumulation with the weight, you need to add with the bias value. And this is that value and that is the case being checked here. You

can see this read address, this is the address going to the weight memory if it is num weight that is the maximum value and if the max value is falling again that logic you can see later. Same thing we are checking, this case is for off-low, this case it's for underflow, this case is neither off-low nor underflow. We get the sum. So this circuit represents this part except with that off-low underflow logic. So we have a much which uses either between the sum of this guy with the previous sum or bias value with the previous one appropriately. And this is a sequential circuit, that means that's also introducing a delay there. So we have this sum. Now where is that sum going?

That sum is actually going to our activation function. Now this particular implementation supports two kind of activation function as of now you are free to add more. Again, That is another trick of Vidylog you can see using the generate statement if you haven't seen it before. So, using generate statement generally we use generate statement when you have to instantiate same module multiple times. You can use for loop to do it and you cannot just directly write for loop in your code. You can write that for loop only inside so-called a generate statement. Those who haven't seen in Vidylog before you need to go check it out.

But here I am using general statement to selectively instantiate one of the modules. So again this parameter ACT type that is coming from, again from the top and using that I can choose whether I need to instantiate a sigmoid activation function or a rectified linear unit activation function. This is a linear function, and this is a nonlinear function. If I choose Zigmoid, he will instantiate this one. If I choose ReLU, he will instantly this one. These are again two separate modules you can see it's ReLU linear so quite straightforward implementation about Zigmoid.

So, this is a little bit more complicated. As I mentioned we are going to use a lookup table to store those sigmoid values how it is done. I will explain in the next tutorial but basically and this is how it will look like. We pre-calculate those sigmoids values and we have already stored it. This is also an MIR function memory initialization function which is used for initializing this Vitis memory, and you can see this sum output is going as the input to this ROM. And the output from that ROM will directly represent the sigmoid value for that particular input.

Now what is that particular input? The MAC output added with the bias value. Multiply accumulate, you multiply and accumulate all inputs and weights at the bias to it. and that is what is this sum, that is what going as the input here and we get the output from the sigmoid. Now again why the entire sum is not going and only a part of it going there you can see I am sending only the upper bits here so maximum width minus whatever is the size of so called sigmoid, because again sigmoid is again implemented as a memory and I can define what is the depth of that memory. The more deep it is, the better precision I will have but more resources it will utilize so here I have written sigmoid size is 5 that means the size of sigmoid memory is only

2 to the power of 5, 32. That's why in this MIF file you can see only 32. So if you increase that up you will have more accuracy okay so this guy has only 32 locations available but my sum its total width is two times my total data width which is like 16 here that is the total data width for our fixed point representation. Again, you can change it. So you cannot directly send this end 32 bits to the sigmoid. It won't work right because those many locations are not there. So what we need to do? We need to drop all the lower bits and send only the most significant bits and that is what is done here. So starting from the more significant bit, only the upper sigmoid size, those 20 bits

VITs we have sent, this style we have used before, this slicing in Verilog, this is how we do it. And we get the output. So we have the output here. So this is the basic implementation, sigma 8, how it is done I will explain in next tutorial but you have an overall idea. So main takeaway is irrespective of number of input, we make them sequential, we send I can send them only one by one for getting better timing performance as well as to reduce the resource utilization, that is one takeaway. And the weight values we generally use a distributed bus, a shared bus so that all the neurons are hooked up to the same bus and by controlling the configuration layer number and neuron number

I can address a particular neuron to send the weight value to that particular neuron. Okay, so that's another takeaway and whenever you write memory you use the output in sequential format so that it will get implemented using block RAM instead of distributor RAM. Here you can see I'm not using sequential, I am using a same statement for this six so called the sigmoid ROM, which stores a sigmoid value. And because of this, this sigmoid memory won't be implemented in block RAM but in distributed RAM. But the size of this sigmoidal memory will be quite small 32 bit, 32 D or 64 D. So it is actually better to use distributed RAM because block RAM, the smallest block RAM is 18 kilo bit. So even if you are not using 18 kilo

The remaining part becomes unused. So it is better to use a distributor for this activation function, but for weight values, it is better use block run. Okay? So these are the main takeaways. Now the minor control signal you can try to read and understand if you have any doubt please ask me in the comments I will try to replay most of them are to manage the pipeline So, we have one pipeline delay here then one pipeline delay there and one pipeline delay here. So, our valid signal has to be delayed accordingly so that's what most of this logic is doing.

Okay? So if they are not clear please feel free to ask I will try to clarify. So in next tutorial we will discuss more about the implementation of the activation function.
