Hello all, so in this tutorial we will be focusing on the implementation of the activation functions. So before going to that details I would like to review some of the basics which we will encounter during the implementation mostly regarding what happens when we multiply two signed binary number. So at the top you can see some constants are declared here, so at this time let me Data Width 16-bit. So the weight as well as input data, they will be represented using 16-bit out of 16 bits, how many bits are representing the integer part of the weight is defined by this one.

So 1 bit for integer part and this is a signed representation. And when we say 1 bit for integer part in sign representation that automatically says that is always a PUSTY number. OK, it has to be always 0. Now again this actual value of this bit will be defined by the module above this. This is just a dummy value so maybe let's put 4 there and make it easier. So 4 means 1 bit for pine 3 bits for the actual magnitude okay for the weight. Similarly in this module So, the output is not needed but when we design other modules you will see it will be also defined what is the integer width for the data path.

So these two values can be different. The oral width is 16 for both but how many bits for integer, how many bits of fractional part can be different for inputs as well as weights. Now let's come to a few things. So suppose we are multiplying two sign numbers, okay? So number one I have M integer part and N fractional part. And number two A integer part and say J fractional part and they are in sign number, sign representation. And when you do number one times number two result There are two ways of representing, either you can say the result will be the sum of total number of bits. So here totally how many bits are there? M plus n bits are there, here k plus

M plus K bits are there. So the total number of bits, I can say it will be M plus N plus K plus B inside multiplication. Some places you may also see it can be M plus N plus K plus J minus 1. I will tell you why it is. Out of this result, m plus a integer part and n plus j fractional part will be there. The oral result. Now remember this integer part that includes the sign bit also so if I Separate that sine bit, I can say like will be 2 sine will be actually there and M-1 plus K-1 which will be the excluding the sign okay that magnitude part and N-SJ fraction will be there.

So there'll be two sine bits which will be exactly same so if the result is positive The first two bits will be 2 zeros, if it is negative, the first two bits would be 1. So that's why you can also say the result can be m plus n plus k plus j minus 1 by omitting the most significant bit in the result because that is again the same side bit. So keep this in mind because that's why we'll see in our implementation wherever we are storing The result of multiplication you can see here. So, this is the input part of input that my input plus size of int part of weight plus one.

Because of this addition thing, this additional one which will be there in that integer part. So these many integer part, then size of fractional part of input plus size of fraction part of V. So these many fraction part will be there. So overall the size of this sum will be 2 times data with minus 1 and this is how it is coming. Data width is same for input as well as weight, but the composition can be different, integer part and the fractional part. But when we look at the sum as a whole its size will be 2 times data width minus 1. So this we need to keep in mind because things may be slightly confusing here. So I found the sum now what I'm doing is this sum should be used for getting the

output of the activation function. Now, as I mentioned before, we can support two kind of activation function in the current implementation one is a sigmoid another one is Ralu, we will look one by one now if i'm using sigmoid ideally this is how sigmoid function looks like so this is where your input in the x-axis and y-axis is the output of the activational function and it varies between 0 and plus 1. So ideally what we should do is this sum should be directly fed, yeah? So the result of multiple accumulation plus bias should be directly given to the activation function unit and it should give us the output that's how it will be happening in software. Now the problem

here is the size of this sum as I mentioned is two times data width minus one so if i'm using 16-bit data width, Size of sum is 32 bits, remember, the size of sum is 22 bits. So if I'm going to use a lookup table for storing these activation function values, the depth of that lookup table for sigmoid, if I am directly feeding this sum there, it will be 2 to the power of 32. It is the depth and each entry in the sigmoid because the output of the sigmoids is going as the input to the next neuron so as far as next neuron is concerned the input is coming from the previous neuron so the size of the value the width of the value coming out of This lookup table should be my data width, that is 16 bit.

So the size of the memory which I need to store this sigmoid value will be something like this. This is 4G you can see, 4G times and this is 8 gigabytes. That is the size of memory that we need. And that is for 1 neuron. So, of course you can see this is not a practical thing. We cannot do anything like this. We cannot do any adjustment on this value because as I mentioned this is going as input to the next neuron so it should be kept as 16-bit but the depth of the lookup table used for storing these values cannot be this much. So we won't be able to directly feed this sum to the activation function, instead of that, Vocabulary, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SCT, ILA‐SCT, and give it to this module.

And this is the guy who is going to give the output. So let's look at that module. This is that module, so inside you can see there's a memory. This is that ROM which will store these pre-calculated value and this is where we are loading that pre-calculated value. Okay, SIGCONDEND.MIF, memory initialization function and we store it there. Now if you look at SIGCONDND, again, This is the case when the depth is 1024, you can see that means sigmoid size is done. Defined as done. You can see how the values are changing.

So this data is 16-bit but here you won't be seeing 16-bit always because the leading zeros are omitted here. So here, if you see it is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 bits only. So that means the 16th bit is 0. And if I look at the definition here, this is going as data to the next neuron, right? So if you look at the defintion here, what is the int width? Okay, that is now defined here, that is defined in some other place, we will come to that. It is defined the integer part of input is only one bit. Okay, so integer part is 1 bit and remaining 15 are fractional part as far as input data is concerned that means here the integer part is 0.

So this should be read as 0 point this one. Okay, so that is what is this one. So if we binary through decimal, if you see what is that value, it will be this value. It's approximately one but it will never reach one because we'll reach one only at infinity. Now similarly if you look at a middle value so this is 1024, so half of it even from the picture you can see 1024 altogether so half of VIT, VIT, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-Site, ILL-Lite. You can see, 5, 13, okay this one again 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 That means the 16th bit is 0. You can see it's giving 0.5 The value before that you will see there are only 14 digits That means there are two zeros out of that one zero is representing the integer part and remaining one zero is part of the fraction itself so that is actually 0.49 this value so on and so forth okay so that's how this guy is going to work now it is very difficult to manually calculate this table because you may have to do it for different depth of sigmoid memory based on the depth of the sigmoid Memory, your resource utilization is going to change to more depth than more resource utilization but better the accuracy and if you keep it smaller vice versa. So I will provide you this Python script okay?

This guy will do it for you. The only thing you have to specify is what is the total data width, what is the depth of the sigmoid memory and in your weight how many bits are representing the integer part and in your input, how many bits are representing the input part. Okay? So once you specify this many, we can just do 5006.5 and he will read this table for you. Suppose So, you don't want to use 10-bit for representing the sigmoid. You want to save some resources. That means you want only five, the DUP. That means 32 entries.

We can run it and you will see like there are only 32. Out of 32 this is representing where the input X value is zero and these values are Posty values, X values, output corresponding to posty values of X. This part represents the output values corresponding to negative values of X in our case that X is actually this upper bits of sum, this one so he will do it for okay so that's how it is stored here now this is where We are taking output from sigmoid and sending it out. Okay, so this Y is acting as the index for reading And you can see like the X is not directly used as the index Y Because our input coming here after all multiplication and summation That is again a signed number There can be negative and posty number

But the address to the memory is always a posty number We cannot have negative address. So whatever value is coming here, if you directly feed it to the sigmoid memory, if negative numbers are coming, you know its more significant bit is 1. So if you are directly feeding that is actually representing a higher address. So instead of getting a smaller value out of sigmoid I'll be getting a larger value. So that is the trick done here so you can see what is done. So whatever X is coming here first we are checking. $SINED of X greater than 0. That means whether it is a posty number. If it is a posty number, I'm adding 2 to the power of INWITTH minus 1 to that. INWIT TH is the

depth of the sigmoid memory so if it is 10 you know this will give 2 to the power of 9. So this is based on the idea if you represent a SINED number using N- and then the I am subtracting this from that, again you can see here I didn't use signed subtraction That means it is doing a unsigned subtraction. So when you look at the negative number in unsigned perspective That is representing a large number From that large number I'm subtracting this offset value. That means it will be offsetted towards the beginning of the memory so in that way I'll calculate the actual address and from memory I type the appropriate value and give it to the output.

This is slightly tricky, you will have to sit and look at and think about it to really see how it is working. You can also look at the Python script so that you'll know some idea of Python otherwise also it is easy. This is where we are calculating the actual sigmoid value. This function is for converting decimal to binary even for fraction numbers. You just have to give the number for conversion, you have to say what is the total data width and you have to see how many bits in the total data with is representing the fractional bit.

So this will convert it into binary format and that is what is storing data here in this binary format. and this is where we are calculating for the data coming into sigmoid how many bits are representing integer part and how many bits are representing the fraction part. And also as I mentioned here, I'm using combinational circuit here, as an instrument that means this won't be implemented in a block RAM, this will be implemented in a distributed RAM so you want to keep the size of the sigmoid memory smaller also.

So that's about Sigmoid. Now the other one is called RELU, stands for Rectified Linear Unit. This is a more recent activation function and now RELU is much popular than Sigmoid And it's much easier to implement RELU compared to Sigmoid because this is a linear function. Sigmoid is a... The output is zero. That is very straightforward. Now, if it is positive number, the output is supposed to be same as input as per definition of ReLU. Now in hardware we cannot directly do it because the issue is you can see like for ReLU there is no upper bound. As the input keeps on increasing, the output should also keep on increasing but in hardware we have a limit that our output network should still represent our fixed point representation.

So the number of bits representing integer part and number of bits representing fractional parts, they should remain same in case of ReLU also. So we cannot directly say out equal to X. It will be problematic. Not only that again, X is two times data with minus one but the output from the neuron should V8Intuit representing number of integer parts in the V8 part, then we have input Intuit, then we have V8Fractional, and we have input Fractional. That's how this entire X is composed of. So we check the sign bit here that is greater than 0 means this bit is 0.

Now what I need is, I need to make sure the output integer width will be same as this input integer width. That is when there is no off-flow. If there are non-zero elements in this portion of my output that is probability. That means there is an off-flow so what I am basically checking is if any bit in this area is 1. If any bit in this area is 1 means my overall number, its integer part cannot be represented just using this input int width. So you can see that is what is done here. 2 times data width minus 1 so that includes this bit also. That's okay. You can write minus 2 also since it is guaranteed that sign bit will be 0 here doesn't matter. Starting from here

I am checking in width plus one, okay? So starting from here all the way till this one plus one more bit. Why? Because this input in width composed of the integer part as well as the sign also so there shouldn't be any offer happening to the sign part also that sign should again remain zero because the offer from renew should be also zero. So I'm checking that many parts If any bit is 1, if any bit is one that means all flow has happened because of that my output I am saturating to the maximum positive value. So the maximum positive will be sine bit 0 and all the remaining bits 1.

If there is no overflow what I can do is I can take this part starting from this part All this integer part and input frack those many bits and just assign it as O. So, that's what is done here. So we are not just taking the upper data width part instead. We are starting from two times data width minus one minus weight in width. Okay? So that represent these many parts. These many parts we are discarding and we are starting from this part and until data width part. which will include this input into it plus input frack bit.

Okay, so I can either write like this or the other way and it will be clear. This much plus here is many bits I'm sending out. So I am satisfying the condition my output data width is also matching with my input data width. Again, this part also you'll have to think for some time Actually during my implementation also, this took some time to catch like why things are not always working properly. So this multiplication by sign number especially in fixed point representation is slightly confusing so you may need to look at it a bit more detail and practice it so that it becomes clear.

Again, the multiplication what we are doing is similar to how we do in decimal number. So if you have 10.5 times 13.2, you can do is 105 times 132. You find the result and in the result let's see 105 times 132, 13 takes 60 will do like that and finally since there is one decimal point here, one decimal point and here there's some you'll put decimal point here, right? Same idea we are doing here in fixed point representation also. We forget about that fixed point. We do all the calculation as if those points they do not exist.

And once we do all the calculations, that point is fixed at a position the sum of the fractional bits of these two numbers. That's how we do it. That's why you are not seeing that decimal point coming into picture anywhere. But we always keep in mind, that point exists in all this calculation. And when you send the final output from this neuron, which is coming from that activation function, we should follow what is followed for this input. So same number of integer bits, same number of fractional bits, and one sign bit.

So we need to follow it. So I hope you will check this out and if there is any clarification required, please ask me in the comment. This script also I will put so you can try with different data widths and different sigmoid memory sizes for different integer part for these two guys You can see how the output is coming. Only thing you need to always keep in mind is yeah, so the center value that should be Approx. 0.5 representing when the input is zero, all the values above that they goes out when the input negative, all the value below this goes out when the input positive.

Ok thank you see in next tutorial.
