Hello all, so before continuing with our design of neural network let's first check how our design is performing till now. So we'll make a comparison between the resource utilization and timing performance between Zigmoid-based nucleon creation as well as the ReLU based nucleon creation. So I have just created a Vivado project, I have added all the files here. So you can see the MIF files, Vivado automatically adds under memory initialization file. He detects it. So this is our sigmoid initialization file and this is a file where all the weight values are there for this particular neuron but this point the value really doesn't matter but this particular neuron it is taking 784 inputs so there will be 784 weights in this file

and this file has the BIOS value. You can directly open it from here, we can go to that folder and open it and see. Okay so these are the weight values in binary again 16-bit wide and this is the BIOS value again 16 bit. Okay so first let me Try for ReLU, so you can see once I set the activation type as ReLU here, automatically highlighting ReLU here. Okay? So the sigmoid is of a blurred here. Now to do a timing performance comparison, I'm also adding a constraint file and I'm putting a constraint of 250 megahertz as the target clock frequency. So let's see How much he can achieve. And this include file again, this style is coming from our see so if you have any constant declaration tick defines you can just

add it to this include file. So I'm just adding this pre-trained parameter here so that this training part doesn't get implemented. Training part in essence the part where we are writing to the wait memory and to the bias register, those parts they are not getting implemented. So I will do till implementation and let's see how much resources Relyu is taking and what is their timing performance. Okay so implementation is completed, let's see the results. OK, so in terms of resource utilization you can see this is the resource utilization.

Utilization for LAT-centric flops you can see it's quite small. It is just 0.24% of the chip capacity. That means 53200, divided by 130. We can approximately implement 4900 N. OK, so LATS will be one of the factors which will decide how many you can implement them because the number of flip-flops is actually double that of LATS Number of block RAMs, CAS, or this you can see like here automatically inferred a block RAM This is used for implementing our weight memory and it's written like half block RAM Because I guess I mentioned before Xilinx one full block RAM is 36 kilo bit but it can be divided into two 18 kilo bits. So he's using only one 18 kilo bit block RAM,

so that's why it is half and 2 DSP slices. So this is another factor which will limit the total maximum number of neurons that you can have. So as per this you can have only one ton neurons So, ultimately we should be focusing on Latsun flip-flops because once block RAMs and ESPs are exhausted he'll use Latsun flip-flops to either make distributed RAM or to implement multipliers. So, let's see what we can do here. So, let me just show you how to do this. So, let us see what we have done. He'll use Ladsun flip-flops to either make distributed RAM or to implement multipliers using Ladsun flip-flops That's about timing, that's about resource utilization So let's save these results so that we can Make some comparison later

So this is for our relu And timing performance you can see Here it's written worse negative slack is a minus number So, Slack basically means what you requested and what is achievable. Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, VDMA, ILA, ILA-SPT, ILA‐SPT, SoC, Vipin, VD 1 by this, that is 210 MHz. That is the F max, maximum frequency as of now. If you have any other critical path when we finish the design it may come down. Okay so that's about our Relu one. Now let's try with the sigmoid one. So this one I will just change to Sigmoid, and Sigmoid depth is 10. That means this file, SIC content should contain 1024.

If it doesn't contain 1024 he may optimize things of it. So we should make sure it has 1024. So we are sitting here and this has 1024. Okay, so all looks fine. So let's just go ahead and run the implementation again. So you'll see like he automatically detects now it is sigmoid, VIRU is unhighlighted. Okay, I will see you after this. Okay, So that's also completed. Let's see. So in terms of resource utilization, this is how it looks like. Let's quickly compare it. Okay so you will see the number of lats and flip-flops they have considerably less when we went for sigmoid implementation because in case of ReLU there is a logic which implements the ReLU part. This one, this is totally implemented using LAT-SUN flip-flop

that's why it is relatively high, that is one reason. Second one, okay so in the previous tutorial I made a mistake, I made a claim that if you use computational circuit style this memory will be implemented in distributed RAM but Vivado is quite smart now, I realized. So the Zig-Mort memory That also got implemented using Blockram, so that's why previously it is half Blockram, now it became one Blockram. So 18 kilobit that is used for a weight memory and another 18 kilobit it is used for implementing this sigmoid memory. The number of DSP slices remains same, no change. IOS and BuffG, you know it doesn't make sense because later neuron won't be a

stand-alone design, so this you don't have to worry about it. So anyway this is taking little bit more block RAM but it is using much LUTs and flip-flops so we cannot really say like one is better than the other at this point at least now if we look at the timing performance here SLAG is this much which is more than previous one I guess 4 plus 0.973, 1 by that is 201 megahertz is F max here. Okay so in terms of frequency F max really has better performance compared to our sigmoid although the other associative play section is lesser okay that means there is a larger combinational circuit We will do one more last experiment because the sigmoid memory size, the depth of that memory,

it plays an important role regarding the resource utilization as well as clock performance. So instead of using 10, that is 1024, let's reduce it to 5 and let's see what happens. So, I... Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, SD card, ILA, XS Let's run this last case also and see what happens. Okay, so that's also completed. Okay. Now you will see the number of flaps and flip-flops they have slightly increased but the number of block ramps it has gone back to half. So again it shows like Vivado he is quite smart. So he found the memory for the ZYK point.

It is quite small so it doesn't make much sense to implement it using an 18 KB block So instead of that, this time he implemented using distributor tram. So because of this I think last time I had the wrong notion like he always implements it using distributor tram anyway so this time he used some distributor tram and he implemented it here and block tram remains there so in this case if you compare these two You will see like definitely our SIGMORD implementation, resource utilization is much lesser than the radio based implementation.

PRAMs and ESPs they are exactly same but LATS and FLIFLAR especially LATS it's almost half of what are used here. Let's look at the clock performance also. Yeah so that is where the real effect is you'll see like negative SLAG has So this is considerably increased because of that distributor tram thing. So now it is 1.155, so it is 4 plus 1.155 by X. It is only 194 MHz is the current F-max. So that's the impact of having distributed RAM compared to a block RAM. Okay, so we will keep this data because this is one information that we need for comparison.

Another important one is the accuracy in terms of properly detecting whatever it is supposed to detect whether relu is better or sigmoid is better that we need to find out, that we will only find out after finishing the entire design. So we'll keep it for that. Thank you.
