Hello all, since we have completed the design of a neuron in this tutorial I will be discussing the design of the layers. So as you know neural networks they are fully connected neural networks they're composed of multiple layers there'll be definitely one input layer as well as an output layer and one or more hidden layers right okay so we are trying to design something like In the figure, 5 layers here, the input layer has 784 neurons, hidden layers have 30, 30, 10 neurons, and output layer as 10 neurons. So that's what we are trying to design. You can see it is a fully connected design.

The first thing I am going to do is instantiate all the neurons in a single module and call it as a layer. As you know, the input layer is not a layer of neurons. This is just representing the inputs coming to neural networks. These things look like neurons, they are just representing the input. These we do not have to physically implement using neurons. So this 784 is just representing So, we are sending the total number of inputs coming to our neural network. We need to implement starting from this first hidden layer which has 30 neurons, then another 30, then another time and finally again done.

So here you can see it. This is our so-called layer 1 and we need 30 neurons there. So you can see I have just instantiated 30 neurons here. Now, we could have used a generate statement for doing it those who are familiar with VITLOG generate statement usually we don't instantiate it one by one like this we just use a generate statement and use a for loop to instantiate neuron. The challenging part here is since the weights and biases are stored in some files, we need to pass the name of those files here if you're trying to read it from the files instead of sending it through the interface.

So these file names we cannot generate using the generate statement. He doesn't support generating these strings by concatenation or things like that. So that's why we are forced to explicitly instantiate them instead of using the gender statement. So this is layer 1, this is layer 2, again 30, this is Layer 3, just 10 and this is layer 4, again 10. So next part looks very straightforward. We have to just instantiate all these layers in another file and just connect them together, right? So here is our issue again.

So in this figure, you can see all these neurons. They are taking all the inputs from the previous layer concurrently. Every neuron here is connected with every other neuron in the previous layer. That's why we call it a fully connected one. But you will see they're all connected concurrently. But in our neuron design, that's not how we did. In our neuron design we just have one input irrespective of the number of predecessors. So it can be 10, 30, 100, any numbers. We have only one input. So we cannot just instantiate it in one file or these four layers and just connect them together.

It doesn't simply work. So instead what we need to do is we need to take the output from one layer parallelly and convert it into serially and send it to the next layer one by one. So that's what we have to do and that's what is done here. So, details I will discuss. So first let's see. So this is where the instantiation of layer one, this is the instantiation of layer two, this is for layer three and this is for layer four, okay? So that part looks straightforward. Now let's see the connection between this layer one and layer two.

That means this guy and this guy, okay? So he is giving output from 30 neurons and each one is 16-bit wide. So where's the output from? So the output is this one, layer 1 output. So again what I have done here, see, layer 1, this is the output and it is calculated as nn times. So nn is representing the number of neurons in this particular neural layer. So total number of neurons times the data width. So I have flattening the output from all the neurons into a bus because in Verilog you cannot have two dimensional array as an interface because Vocabulary, Vitis, Zynq, Zynx, Zync, ILA, ILA.

Vocabulary, ILA-Sci-Lite, ILA,. and combine it to a single bus. Now the data valid from all the neurons will be becoming high at the same time because all of them have same number of pipelining and all of them are getting same input, you can see same input is going to all of them because again this is fully connected right so all of them will be getting input at the same time same number of pipeline no back pressure That means all of them will be giving output at the same time. Okay, so it is not really necessary to take all valid because one valid will represent output from all neurons are valid but still let's take it.

So that's what is coming here. This is the output from first layer. So remember this has the output from all the neurons within this layer That I am not directly feeding to layer 2 input instead of that, that is going to a memory. So this is whole data 1 so you can see the declaration here number of neurons in layer one times data width okay so which is the total width of the data coming out of layer one. I am storing that output data into this big register. Okay, so let's call it register. I'm storing it to this big register when I'm storing whenever O1 data valid.

So this data valid, I'm checking only the zero bit because as I mentioned, all neurons will give valid output at the same time. So whenever the first neuron is giving a valid output, I'm latching the enter output to this register inside a small state machine in my ID state and once I latch it, I'll go to a state called the send state and you can see what is happening in the send state. I am just right shifting this big register so it is acting like a big shift register. I'm right-shifting it every clock by data width.

We are right-shifting by that much. And the rightmost data here, since we are right-shift, after each clock, the rightmost data width, those many bits we will lose. So those many bits, I am actually latching to another register called out data one, its width is actually not available. So this out data one is getting connected to the next layer. Okay, so that is a trick. So instead of directly connecting it, you can imagine there's a big shift register sitting in between each layer and the output from the layer first gets stored in that shift register, then clock after clock, that will get shifted to the next player.

So this logic perfectly works. You can imagine like the previous layer So for this logic to work, the number of neurons in a particular layer should be equal to or less than the number of neurons in the previous layer. Otherwise you can imagine what will happen before we shift out all the data here. The previous layer will be giving new output and our logic will break. So practically if you look at any neural network, the number of neurons in the predecessor will be always equal to or greater than the number of neuron in a particular layer.

I haven't seen any case where the number of neurones in a predecessor is less than this one. There could be cases, in that case we will have to modify this logic, we will have add and backpressure like our reduce signal from this state machine to the previous logic which is giving data to the previous layer. So that's what we have to do, so in most practical case this thing will work. So same logic we are using between every layer. So this one, this state machine is for between layer 1 and layer 2 and this one for layer 2 and layer 3, this one layer 3 and layer 4.

Now the question is how layer 1 is going to get data? That means this guy, so this guy should get data from the external world. For that we have an AXI-Stream interface here. So this is from where... So, the original data is going to come. This 784 data that is going to come through this interface, our standard AXI stream. So the ready signal as of now you can see it is always ready. So as I mentioned before if a back pressure if you have to implement we have to add that logic here from that state mission current implementation that is not needed.

So this data is directly going as the input to the first layer and this valid is directly going as the valid throughout first layer. So things look straightforward. Now, the only thing remaining is what happens to the data coming out of the last layer. So we have it here. This is our last layer. This is the data coming out of that. Currently it is getting latched here and from there it is going as out data for but as of now this is not connected anywhere so practically what you need again we are trying to do that MNIST data set that means we are trying find hand-written digits so that's why we have 10 neurons in the output layer each neuron will represent one of the digits

so if the input digit is 0, this guy's output should be larger than the output from all other neurons OK, if it is 1, the input data, this guy's output should be greater than all others. So we need some logic after this who is comparing the output from all these neurons and detects which neuron's output is the highest and say like, OK, so the input represents this particular digit. That part we will do in the next tutorial because we also have to add some more logic to our input in addition to the AXI stream because if we are not using free train, we need some logic which is sending the weights and biosource to our neural network as well as we need some logic which takes the output from this logic which is detecting the maximum

output and send it back to the external world. So that part we will do in our next tutorial. Thank you.
