Hello all, so in this tutorial we will wrap up our hardware design. So in the last tutorial we have discussed implementation of layers and combining them together. Now one thing that is left is usually from the output layer you need to find out which neuron is giving the maximum output and we can say like okay so the input is classified to the label which is represented by this particular neuron. Again we are looking at 10 outputs here because the application we are aiming at is hand-written digit recognition. So there will be 10 digits, that's why we have 10 neurons.

So we need to find out which of these neurons have the highest value. So usually in software implementation and that is done through something called this softmax function implementation. This is how that function will look like. This is that function, so you find this exponential and divided by the sum of exponential output from all other neurons. So again, you can of course see it's very difficult to do this in hardware, pure hardware. So one way to do it is you may take all these outputs from the hardware neural network to the PS and do this part in software, that is one solution or we can do it in hardware but not exactly a softmax function.

Instead of that, I am calling it as a hardmax function. That means we'll have a module which takes the output from this output layer from all the neurons and it will simplify which neuron's output is highest without normalizing it. So you can see this is the output from the fourth layer, the last layer XOUT-valid, you can see. That's actually going into this state machine also. So if there is a next layer, the output from the shift register will go to that layer. But we have only four layers, but this state machine will be still there in the code. I'll explain you why it is that because of some design automation, it is still there.

Or we can remove it later. So this part is really a dummy code. This is not doing anything with this last state machine. What is happening is this output is actually going to this module, MaxFinder module. Okay? And inside MaxFinder you can see like he gets the data and again it is one dimensional we are multiplying the data width with the number of neurons in the output layer. Here we have 10 and that over there 16 and we are taking it and on every clock he compares like our software implementation, but he takes like 10 clock cycles to find out which is the largest number.

We can do it in one clock if you use a big combinational circuit, but the clock performance will be horrible. That's why we don't do it in 1 clock. We take 10 clocks or the number of clocks equal to the number of neurons in the output layer and compare one by one and find out which is the largest numbers so that's what our match finder is doing. That is one thing. Another thing that we needed was, yeah, if the weights and biases, if they are not configured from this file, those have to be sent by some other controller like a processor.

So there should be some provision for that. So at the top, we have added an AXI-Lite interface you can see here so that processor can communicate with our neural network. So neural network will be implemented like an IP and it will have two interfaces now, one stream interface for sending this data to the input layer and this Xilite interface for configuration as well as reading out the final data. So you can see and we also have a Xilite wrapper here. This is our standard core generated by our IP generator, Xilite Wrapper.

and there are many registers inside that, it's easy to see here. So we have a register called weight register, BIOS register, output register, layer register, neuron register, many registers out there. So suppose the processor wants to configure the first weight inside say in the first layer what the processor should do is first he should configure in which layer he wants to configure. So he will write that layer number to this register address 3. So from processor point of view address 12, He will say 12, then he will write to which neuron he wants to write in this particular layer To this address, address 16, Then he will actually write the weight value To this weight register Now all these registers they are directly wired out

At the top you can see It's going out as layer number, neural number, weight value. So they are directly coming here. So, we have a lot of information here. So only if these values are matching with the current value of this neuron, from where he's getting it, they're all configured here through the parameter. So only if those values are matching, he will take those values and store them in his internal weight register memory or in the WAS register. So that's why we have added this AXI-Lite wrapper. Now again more things we have.

You'll see like there is an interrupt signal here. And when we interface our neural network with the processor, the processor wants to know whether he has done a particular classification or not. So once the neural network detects one new digit, he will assert this interrupt signal and you can see from where that signal is coming? That signal is coming from the output of our MaxFinder. So once he finds the maximum value, he'll make this signal high for 1 clock. So that will act as an interrupt to the processor. So he will find like, okay this guy has finished one classification and he can't read out.

So from where he'll read? This is output from the MaxFinder. This output you can see with that output connected. That output is connected to AXI-Lite wrapper and from AXI-lite wrapper, this is that one neural network out in and out. That is Connector, Network-to. Output register, it is one level pipelining and that output register is two. So if the processor reads from 2, that means address 8, he'll be actually reading from the output of this MaxFinder. Okay? So that's how things are going to happen. So initially processor he may configure all weights and biases Then he will stream the input data, maybe using a DMA controller to our neural network.

Once he finishes this classification, he'll assert an interrupt that will go to the processor. When he gets the interrupt, he will come and read from this address too And he will find like okay, this is the detected digit. So this value will be either 0 1 2 3 any value between 0 to 0 for our application. So depending upon the application here, which our neuron has highest value, he'll be able to read it. That's that logic. If you want to read the output from the output layer directly by bypassing this heartmax layer, that's also possible.

So here you will see there is a small logic here. The output from our last layer, but it's not only going to this heartmax, but it is going to this small logic also. So what he does is similar to our shift register, whenever this signal comes, AXI-Reed enabled, He will shift this register right by data width, like 16 bit in our particular case. And the rightmost data it is assigned to this signal, AXI read data which is actually going to AXI-Lite interface, AXI read data this one. So if the processor reads from 5, that is address 20, he can directly read from the output layer.

Only catch is when he reads each time, he will be reading from different neurons from here. When he reads from this address 20 for first time, the output will be coming from neuron 0. Then next time when he reads from here, from here, from here, so on and so forth because of that shifting operation. And once he reads from all-time neurons, if he reads again before getting an X-Tintrup, the output will be undefined. Practically it will be just 0. So that is also there. There are a few more features like you can give a soft reset which we discussed before to our neural network if you want to reset in between So the soft reset, you can see it is all with the AXI reset.

So soft reset is actually connected to the control register in the AXI Lite interface and this one, control register 0 bit is going as that soft reset so you can use it and status register SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA. OK, so that concludes more or less our entire hardware design. Now this entire thing we are going to call it as Xynat Because it's a neural network for Zynq, but This has nothing to do with Zynq explicitly. This design is totally portable. You can implement it in any FPGA Even from different vendors it doesn't matter because we didn't use any IP cores Explicitly in this design, but still we are just calling it Xynat

So if you want to add this AXI-Lite with other FPGA, you will need some soft processor which has this AXI interface like even microblaze processor will do if you are not doing it on Zynq. If you are doing it on WITX67 or something like that, you can still use it But we need a micro-blaze processor as the processor, like our PS. We need something. Now in addition to that for complete implementation what you need is all the weight and bias values again that depends upon the particular application so here you can see I have a lot of MIF files which is representing these weights So this is the way to do it.

So that's how the weight values are. How you can generate this file? We will discuss in next tutorial because manually doing it is not easy. You can see these are quite big and they're also in binary. And we need some flexibility to decide what is the data width. Currently, we are always using 16-bit but we are not stuck with 16-bit. Stackwave 16, you can use 16A3264. Any width there will be flexibility so that I will discuss how we do this design automation, how we can generate all these files automatically we can discuss.

And same for the BIOS also and the sigmoid MIF files if you are using sigmoid that script I have already shown you how we can do it using Python script okay. Another important file here is this include file, include.v, previously we have seen it but it had only one parameter like train or not. But now if you look at that file it has much more data, I guess things are much clearer to you. So this pre-trained will basically say whether it is pre-trained or not and this one basically saying totally how many layers are in our neural network, what is the data width used, How many Neurons in first layer? How many weights are there for each Neurons in first layer and the activation type used by the neural network. So same way it is discussing,

it is specifying for all the layers and you can see like there is a fifth layer also but it is not a layer in this sense there is no neurons there you can see the type is written as So this details are required while we are implementing. You can also see the sigmoid size here and what is the integer width used for specifying the weight. There is no explicitly data on how many integers are used for specifying input data or output data that is automatically and then we will see why it is like that. This include file is important because you will see in the instantiation all the information to the layers and ultimately to the neurons is coming from this instantiation file.

That's why previously I told like don't worry about these parameters here they are all dummy. So, we have a lot of information about the
