Hello, so finally it's time to actually check our neural network whether it is really working or not. So as I have been mentioning many times we are targeting an application called the MNIST database. So MNIST it's a very popular dataset or database for evaluating neural networks. So its aim is actually to find handwritten digits. So this database, it already has 60,000 images for training purpose then another 10,000 images for actually testing to check the accuracy of the neural network. Now again Wikipedia you can see the performance of lot of previous implementation and we are somewhat this one a deep neural network DNN because we have multiple hidden layers okay So in the MNIST dataset, this is how actually the images will look like.

You can see there are 100 digits between 0 to 9. And each image here, it is scaled to a 28 by 28 frame. OK? So that's the size of each image. So when we say 28 times 28, there are 784 pixels for each image. and these 784 pixels they are acting as the input, and the aim is to detect which is this input. So that's why you will see like all these DNN implementation, the first layer, so these are just two layers, this is six layer, every neural network, its first layer will have 784, because there are those many pixels.

Now, how that dataset really looks is slightly different from this one. This is like a black and white image. We have only white pixels and black pixels, but the one we are going to use it has a gray scale representation and the background will be black and character or the digit will be in gray scale. So you can imagine like it's black color. We can see it, MNIST data, some images, maybe more like this. It will look like again. This is black and white but in our case this will be grayscale okay? It won't be pure white, it can be any value between 0 to 255 for each digit. Okay so that's what we are aiming for. So We are implementing as of now a four layer neural network. So you can see I have already added to

a project so there are four layers, layer one, layer two, layer three, layer four and the input layer which we do not see here. So in layer one we have 30 neurons you can see the hierarchy here, Layer 2, layer 2 also 30 and other two layers 10 each. And the last layer this is the output layer, layer 4 and whichever neurons output is the highest that represents the input digit. That's the idea so we have this MaxFinder module which detects which are modules output is the highest. And all other files we have discussed before, this include file, it has all the information like what is the type of activation function, how many neurons are in each layer things like that when you have memory initialization files for all bias assuades

and SIGMoyit, if we are using SIGMoy. So first time let's use SIGMoyIt and run it. So I have also written a test bench this one top.sim so this guy reads one particular digit or particular test image and he will inject it to our neural network through our AXI-Stream interface, again it's not complex so no VIDlog is very straightforward. Now the test data, as I mentioned there are 10,000 actually test data they have been actually converted into text format and i have kept them in my sim folder you can see this is my project, my project one Project 1, why it looks like that, no sensible name, maybe I'll explain later.

So I have all the 10,000 images here but this time I'm not using binary representation, I'm A text representation, so this is the content of each file. You can see there are seven So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, Vitis, Zynq. So, VIPI, so, VIPi, so, so, SCT, ZYQ, ZYC, ZSCT, So, VIBE, so, and so, VIBe, so, so, so VIBE is a very good example of how to do this. So, VIVI, so you can see that the VIBE has been used for the VIBe is used for the VIVI. So, VIFI is used for VIVI is used for the VIFI. So, V 785th entry also which is actually representing which digit is this. So that when the neural network it gives an output I can compare with this value and really find whether he properly detected or not.

So for example, I can see this first number it is actually 7, 1,1,1. This is also in binary and the second number is this one, 1 0 which is 2 so on and so forth. So what Artus mentioned us is he will take one image from here he will inject it he will wait for that interrupt coming from our neural network when he gets the interrupt he will check which neurons output is highest from that match winder through the Xilite interface and if he finds like it is matching with this one, he will find say like it is correct if it is not matching. He will say like that's wrong and there's a accuracy calculation also based on that we can find out how many outputs

are correctly coming now at the top there is a tick defined here for simulation file match test sample so there are 10 000 images for testing if you test all 10 000 it's going So, you can specify how many you want to test 100 means first 100 images will be tested You can put any value up to 10,000 there so that he tests up to 10 thousand Okay, so now let's go ahead and test it we are using 100 and we are going to use sigmoid Activation Function, so you can see for every layer the activation type is specified as sigmoid.

Let's see how much accuracy he's going to give and the sigmoid size is 10 that means the depth of that sigmoid memory is 1024. Okay, so just go ahead and say run simulation and let's run it. While simulation is running, you can actually see he's injecting each number. So you can see the test number here and in real time you can see like how much accuracy he's achieving. So it's like 96 now so he's saying what number is detected here and what is the expected. So that expected number is finding from this one and the received number is getting from the MaxFinder, and the accuracy is 98%, which is not bad actually for our hardware implementation.

And this accuracy also depends upon the weights and biases. I didn't really explain how we got them. We got it from a software implementation. So it depends upon the training also. So if the training is bad, we can't expect better result. But 98% is pretty good. So let's store this information also for future. So I already have this resource utilization data and sigmoid 10. Yeah, so let's say accuracy is 98% and use sigmoid with depth 10. And we also have a case where sigmoid depth is 5 for saving some resources. So let's try that.

Now for doing it again if you are manually doing everything what you need to do is you is in the include, you need to change the sigmoid size to 5 here and you need to change this sichrome content file memory initialization file to change this one. This file you have to change to those 32 sigmoid values okay and there is a script for that I have given you before now i will have more design automation that part i will explain later So this will be ultimately how it will look like. So here you can see there's a parameter, sigma and psi so I'm just changing it to 5 keeping everything else same and I'm just running this script, MnisZynet.py. Design automation we will discuss in a separate tutorial. So he has done if you come back and

SoC has modified it here, he has also modified this file also. That reason I explained because our block RAM was converted into distributed RAM. Okay, again not very bad for this much resource saving 2% penalty on accuracy may be fine again depends on the application so SQLite part is done So let's go and try the ReLU how it is behaving to change it to ReLU i have to do few things I need to change the activation function to Relu for all the layers and I need to change the weights and biases used. They should be the weights and bias for Relu.

Again this is a design automation part, I will explain to you later. Don't worry once it is done I will just rerun the script and now if I come back and look at This include file, you can see all of them have changed to ReLU type. Okay so we have to rerun, relaunch everything, and run. And the accuracy is around 91% now. So you can see it's pretty low compared to Zigmoid okay? So maybe I guess for at least for MNIST application, Sigmoid is performing much better than Relu but in terms of clock performance, Relu has an advantage. So if you are planning to run somewhere around 200 MHz, I would say the best option is this one using Sigmoid with depth 10 and which is giving like 98%

Again, this claim is true only if the software training, the weights and biases that we got from software training are comparable. If the training was bad for ReLU, of course it will perform bad for ReLu but at least for this application I would claim like Sigmoid he is giving better accuracy. Another issue with ReLU is we really didn't implement the ReLU. Actually, ReLU is an unbound function so it is supposed to linearly keep on increasing as the input increases. But if you remember our implementation of ReLU we have a saturation logic here to make sure the number of digits representing the integer part it is not off.

Because of that we are limiting the upper bound for ReLU and in this particular implementation The number of digits used for representing input is only one bit. That means we are saturating at 1, the output of that ReLU it just gets saturated at 1. But in software training time this limitation is not there, there is no upper bound for ReLU So there will be issue because of that also. That will be the main reason I guess. I guess, ReLU is giving low performance. But in hard-earned implementation we are forced to saturate it.

Maybe in the future once I explain this design automation we can change this one. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, So this is how we are generating weights and biases automatically And how can you easily generate any neural network using Python script This is inspired from TensorFlow Those who have seen TensorFlow, you will see it's using very similar syntax It's quite similar to TensorFlow I'll explain you how it is working And those who need to know the details, beforehand you can just search for my paper. This one, Zynq which was published just last year, Automation of Deep Neural Network.

So again this is a work still under progress as of now we have only DNS fully connected DNS. But soon there will be automation for CNNs and other kind of neural network like LSTM, things like that. Thank you. See you in next tutorial.
