Hello all, so in this short video I wanted to show how can we generate the weights and biases from TensorFlow also. So as you might be knowing TensorFlow it's a very popular software implementation for implementing different kind of neural network. Right? So this is an example code for evaluating MNIST dataset. I hope TensorFlow is already installed in your system or you can just go ahead and just type PINSTORE TensorFlow if you already have Python in your system. This will be installing TensorFlow in your system, okay?

So yeah so here you can see similar to in the other software first you are loading the MNIST dataset. So this MNIST dataset it gets installed as part of TensorFlow itself so you don't have to download anything separately. So here they are just normalizing that input data and this is where the neural network is built, okay? So this is a sequential type of neural network. This represents the first layer, the flattened layer that represents the first layer then the fully connected layers they call it as dense type so you can see like There are 4 dares type, 30-30 10 per just like our case. Again you can change it, you can add or remove whatever you want and the activation function is here, sigmoid type for all the layers

and there's no additional layer for finding the maximum that is automatically done and this is where the layers are combined and the network is generated and this is where the training is happening. So here again number of iterations you can specify, I am specifying 20 iterations and this is what you are evaluating it. Okay so at the top you can see like X-Train, Y-Train, X-Test, Y-Test. So this is the training data and Y is the label for this training data. So this a list which contains the information about what is the actual of the network. Now our aim is to get the weights and biases of the same neural network after training so this part I will add towards the end okay so again no big deal here you can see

these are some built-in functions model is representing that neural network dot layers Vitis.getweights that will get us the weights from the neural network, again it will have five layers so the input layer it is just representing no real neurons you know it is a flat representation of input that's why I'm starting this for loop from one to number of legs okay so one two three four We have actually four layers and from that I'm going layer by layer and this get weight it will return actually two lists. So the first one will represent the weights of that particular layer depending upon the value of i, and second one get weights of 0 will be a list of weights.

GetWeightsOf1 is actually a list of biases, although the function name is getweights. So we will get it now how these weights are stored in TensorFlow is different from the software that we used before. In the previous software what happens is if neuron 1 has say 784 input there will be a list of 784 weights, so that's how it used to store. But here it is different, here weights are stored according to input. For example we have 784 input and it is going to the first layer which has 30 neurons. So instead of having 30 lists of 784 weight, how TensorFlow stores is it will have 784 lists of 30 weights each. So the first weight represent the weight to the first neural from the first

input, second element represent the weight of the first input to the second element. So, again here it is stored in the XSCT way that is required because it doesn't make sense to say this particular bias is for this particular input. No biases are always for a particular neuron so that they have stored in the same way. Okay? So there is no need of taking the transpose of bias list. So we get it and we just store it in this file. So that's it. So this should give us a similar file with the name weights and biases, It should have the list of weights as well as biases. Okay so let's try to run it.

So Vipin TensorFlow will run it. So now you can see it is doing the training. So the training here is much faster. Here you can see. And you can see like each training So, after 20 iterations it should be around 96-97%. Let's see. Okay now he has done. Okay so after 20 iterations, it should be about 96-97%, let's see. Okay now he is done. Okay so after the first iteration, it was only 52% but as time passes, as the iteration number changes increases you can see the accuracy keeps on increasing. has done. Okay, so after 20 iterations it is 98% using the training data and validation data but using those test data the remaining 10,000 images he's getting 95.89.

So that accuracy is 95.89% for the test data. What we are interested is in this file which has similar structure as the previous weights and bias lists. It should be similar. Now it will have only weights and biases, in the previous case there were a number of neurons and all in the same file but that information we are not using that's why that is not written to this file. Yeah fine so we need this file and we use this file to generate our weights and biases The MIF files as well as the neural network. So this I am putting at a special place, I am putting it here and this file name I need, weights and biases and that I am using in this particular script.

This script I have shown you before for generating a sigmoid of different depth. More details, this is the main automation script that I will discuss in the next tutorial. This basically has all the previous automation that we discussed. This automatically runs the script for generating the weights and biases from this file which we saw in the previous tutorial. It also runs the script of generating the sigmoid memory content and some other extra thing. That I will discuss it in the next tutorials. I just wanted to show you that this one also works.

You can get big sun biases from TensorFlow also. So, I'm just adding it and I am just running python mnitsigner.py And he automatically generates those MIF files and all. Okay? And that automatically gets updated in this file actually. in this project. So these files get updated from that script. Okay, so now let's go ahead and run simulation and see. So make sure these are sigmoid here also these are sigmaoid and this file name is what a file name you're using and we are 16 data width and 10 as the sigma memory address width.

Let's run simulation, K, so run simulation and you can see at the beginning it is 100 then it came down but now it is improving let's see. Okay, it gave 91%, but that is a little bit less than our software. This give around 96%. Now the interesting thing is each time you run TensorFlow, the weights and biases that he will give will be different because he initializes all these weights and biases by some random number and that random number is different each time you are running. So I am just running it once again and see whether the new weights and biases will improve our harder performance.

Okay, he has done this case actually this is slightly lesser but anyway let's see how is the harder performance so I'll take this new weights and bias from here I will put it here and I will run this script once again and we will rerun the simulation. So last time it was 91% so let's see how much he gives this time. So again there will be some effect because TensorFlow is using 41 number representation that is also 32 bit, we are using only 16 bit and also our sigmoid is not a smooth function, we are using an approximation for sigmoid.

So these things will have effect on the accuracy. Yeah so this time it is 95% you can see it's actually much better than previous type. So software implementation it is 95.43 and hardware implementation it is ninety five. So pretty close, we can't expect more than this with all these restrictions. Okay so I hope this will be helpful to you those who do not have any idea about TensorFlow You can just check in YouTube there are a lot of good tutorials maybe I'll add one tutorial for this MNIST dataset in the description.

Okay, so in the next one we will discuss this main automation script how this works. Okay thank you.
