Hello, so in this tutorial I will be discussing the Python-based framework called Xynet which can be used for automatically generating neural network targeting FPGAs. So this framework it includes all the automation that we discussed before the script which are used for generating weights and biases as well as for sigmoid content etc. So again share the git repository for the platform but the easiest way to install it is using the python package installer because this is also hosted at pip repository for python distribution so you can just go ahead and install it by typing pip install zynq.

So the advantage here is this gets installed in your lib package directory in your computer, so you will be able to use it from anywhere in your system. The package need not be in the same folder where we are building your neural network. So to really see where it got installed, you can type it once again and he will show like what is the location. If you go there, you'll be able to see it. OK, so this is Xynet and this is the package. Now I will show you this with an example, the same example that we have been using.

And OK, so, this is an example of building a neural network using Xynet. So at the top you can see like we are importing Xynet and we also importing NumPy package. And if you look at the code here, you will see it is very similar to TensorFlow syntax. So that was the main motivation for building this platform because TensorFlow, you know, it is very useful friendly. It's very intuitive. That's one reason it is quite popular. But unfortunately, hardware design is not everyone's cup of tea. So that's why we need to give some support for building hardware based neural networks. So that was the main motivation So you will see like this is the TensorFlow core for the same MNIST dataset So you can see what is happening here

So here first, we are creating a model which is basically an object in Python Which represents the neural network so here also you can see first thing We're making a model. So you just go on Zynq.model After that you add layer by layer to that neural network. So here you can see this is the input layer which will be a flattened type, here also we are adding first layer, we are calling it flattened type. The only difference is here you do not have to specify the number of inputs because he will automatically find it during training based on how many inputs he is getting So here you have to explicitly say the number of inputs of the first layer.

So that's why it is given 784 because our images for MNIST are 784. After that, you can see here we are adding four layers. We are specifying number of neurons here. We are specifying the activation type here in TensorFlow. Same way, we're adding four layers here. We are specifying a number of neurons. We are adding four layers here. We are specifying number of neurons, we are specifying activation type. Only difference is here the dense layer is specified like this because they have different kind of layers as of now we support only dense layer maybe in future other layers will be also supported but it is passed as a parameter here that's the only difference and towards the end we are adding

and additional layer to find the maximum value in hardware itself, but here the maximum value is found in software. After that you can see the compile method here model.compile that is what is used for building the neural network. Here also you can see we are using the compile method but the parameters those are passed here are different one parameter is here specifying whether it is a pre-trained one or not pre-trained on if you specify it as a pre-train one You have to pass the weights and biases to this function as an array.

Okay, so you remember our weights and biases dot txt which has the weights and biases that we generated before and this will be converted into a linear array by this method and this is also part of Zynq actually, Zynq package this module so he will do it for you so we just call these two things and we pass it the weight array as well as the bias array and you have to specify the data width. You want to use the integer size of weight and integer size of input and the depth. SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA-SPT, ILA‐SPT, I am passing the data width here, sigma height size here 10, weight integer size 4 and input integer size as 1. And let's try to run it so we just say python mnisynet.py and he will do it.

So one interesting thing is okay so he will also analyze the weights non-biased file for you and he will recommend you what is the minimum integer size required for weights okay so here Vivado project. If you come to that folder, you can see what he did is he creates a folder called sources. Inside that there will be a RTL folder inside that we have all those MIF files which is generated by the GenVeg Son Biaser script inside Zynq and you can see all the RTL code. Okay so we have layer 1, 2, 3, all the layers here.

Max find a neural network, everything that we designed before. and he also adds the test bench. Now this test bench, it really makes sense only if you are working with MNIST dataset, it is specific to MNIST for other things you will have to modify the test bench but the neural network generation part, it is generic, you can use it for any neural network and you can see this my project one folder inside that he generates the Vivado project. Now for this to really work, Vivado should be added to your system path. So whichever Vivado version is in your path environment variable, you'll be using that Vivado for generating this project. So you will have to open it with that Vivado version.

OK, so here you can see all files are here. And the simulation file he also has the test bench. Now suppose if you want to generate a neural network with a different number of layers that is pretty straightforward. Say like you wanted only 30, 20, 10, only three layers, suppose. So that is pretty straight forward. You just do like that. Now the only thing is, if you are using pre-trend 1, he will automatically check whether the weights and biases file that you passed is matching with the specification that you have given here.

If they are not matching, he will raise a warning. So here you can see like he's complaining, weights do not match for this particular layer 1. So he will give a warning and this right will give an error saying like this project already exists. Yeah, because he is not alright so let me comment this line out because we already have the project and let me run once again, ok, let's run it once again So, now we have only 30, 20, 10 and that output hardmax. So it's very straightforward. Now if you directly change the values here and use these weights and biases, it won't and V I will not warn you because he is not looking at the 2vaxon.bias file, so he is happy and it will be updated there

So let's put back the original version and run these two commands also And I will show you what really happens, so 30-30-10-10 and Heartmax and we say pre-trained yes and I will close this Vivado project and I will also delete this folder We can add the option to delete the project if it exists, but I didn't add it because in case you accidentally give the same project name and you delete your previous project. So to avoid it we are not using the force option when we are creating a new project that's why he is giving error if the project already exists so you can give a different project name or delete that folder which has the Vivado project and rerun it will work. So let's wait until he finishes.

OK, so he has completed. Let's go back and open the same project once more. OK, so this is how the project now looks like. So you can see in addition to the previous files, we have this component.xml file which is the IP representing our neural network. You can see it has an XCStream interface and an XCLite interface. This is Xilite, this is XSStream. It also has an interrupt signal. He also generated this block design. Now the name of that block design you can specify here I'm just calling it to myBlock2 and you need to pass the project that you created as a parameter here so these names, these two names they should match with what our name is here okay so this is that block design

Zynq, Zynq. So you can see we have Zynq so his intro is concatenated with the DMA intro and that is connected to our PS and this DMA this guy is used for transferring the data from the external memory to Zynq and this Xilite interface this one Here is ultimately controlled by this GP0 from here. So you can see like it has automatically generated on the block design everything for you. Along with this maybe one useful thing is if you go to the Xynet installation directory, so basically what happens is there is a folder called this 1DB database and all these HDL files most of them they are pre-stored here.

So this is just instantiating those neurons multiple times inside a particular layer, things like that. So this one is the one who instantiates these neurons as many times as you specify. Now one important script here may be useful script here is here called this block.tcl So again those are working with ticker So, previously I have shown like you can store your block design in TCL format. Now the only issue with that is if you generate the block design in a particular Vivado version and someone else in a different Vivado version it will give issues because the TCL script that Vivado generates it directly uses the specific IP version information inside the script.

So here we have DMA controller and our DMA controller version in 2017.4 will not match with the version in 2018 because it may be a newer version so here it is 7.1 in the 2018 maybe it is 8. something so that's why those issues happening so in this script what I have done is you can see I have done some modification to the script file so what happens is he doesn't use us the specific version number here he just uses the IP name okay and the specific versions will be instantiated based on the particular Vivado which is running this block design. So this could be useful to you also not only for this project for any other project, so this is the script which actually generated

So, this block design. So if you are using article to generate block design, this could be useful. Okay so now what I will do is I will go through a complete iteration from beginning till end for our MNIST dataset explaining what is the total design flow. So, including generating the data for vitification and generating the neural network, simulating and testing it. Okay? So let me close this again once again. Let me close everything. Okay so before generating neural network first thing that you need is this weights and BIOS file.

So first step you need to do a software based training for getting this weights and biases. Then only we can start building the hardware. Okay, so that part let me bring those files also here. So we have this file gen weights and biases and gen test data right? So we need this one or if you are using TensorFlow, you can generate it from there also, weights and biases. But for input data generation, test data generation, you definitely need this file, Gentestdata.py. Okay so I am taking this entire script and I am bringing it to our latest tutorial here. So first thing I'm going to do is train the neural network. So this time let's use a totally different configuration, let's say like 78430, let's

say 2010. We are using a smaller network, okay? 302010 and let's see how this one is going to perform. So this is where we are starting. So we do this and first step as you know is to run this script, so we say python train neural network.py and he will do 30 iterations and at the end of 30 iterations he will give us these weights and biases. Now one thing I want to modify there is the type of activation function, so remember that information is in network2.py let's use sigmoid. So I will come here and I will put this sigmoid one, this is a relu one.

So let me put sigmoid here, okay? Now let's run. So I'll come back once he finishes the training part. Okay so now training is completed, so if you go here we have this file, reads and biases, it's wrong, okay anyway. So you take this one, and next step is generating hardware. So we need... SoC, Vivado, UART, ILA, ILA. to match with whatever we put here. So it is 3020, 10. So it's 3020, 10. Keep the heart max there and this time let's use only TarterWit as 8. And we run python-m-nis-line at.py. And wait for him to finish and generate our project.

So that's also done. Now let's go ahead and open the project. Okay, so you can see there are three layers and it is 30, 20 and done. Next is simulation. So for simulation we have to generate that test data. That's where we have to use the next script, this is gen test data.py script for doing that and here you have to again properly specify the data width so the data width that you specify here should match with whatever data we use for generating the neural network then only it will work properly so input in size is one that is one that I would this eight okay now when you simulate it that test data should be inside the sim folder of Vivado. Now by default that directory structure

is not there, so let's just run simulation once and he will now complain like he cannot find the test data files in the sim folder, that is fine we just want him to create those So if you run the simulation now, he can see that he is complaining. He cannot open these files because they do not exist. So we want to generate those folders so it is this folder. So the test data, the MIF file, he automatically copies here but the test data files we will have to add them here. So what I'm doing is, I am just taking this path and I am using that as the output path for generating my test data.

Okay so you just copy it here, here and just run python-gen-test-data.py and we are generating All test data, that means 10,000. So it will take a few minutes to generate all of them. So we'll wait until that. So that is also done. Now if you come back to that XM folder, yeah, you should be able to see this test data 0 or the way to 9999. And in our test bench, if you see, we are just using first 100 samples to change it. So if you want to change this number, you can change it. If you are not changing it, you don't have to recompel it.

You can just restart your simulation and just run because we didn't change any source code. And you can see he's running. Oh, the accuracy is pretty good actually, although we reduced the data size. 99% accuracy. So out of 100 images, he correctly detected 99. So this is the overall flow, so for MNIST it is pretty straightforward. As I mentioned before, the generation of neural network has nothing to do with MNIST. You can just specify your requirement and he will generate the neural network for you. But the test bench is specific to MNIST in some sense.

So if you are using other data, you have to slightly modify it and this general So, we have to use another script file to convert it into binary or text file. We have discussed before also. I hope this will be useful to you. Maybe in the next tutorial we will run this on hardware and see whether it really works on hardware also. Thank you.
