Hello, also next let's do an interesting small project. Let's try to connect our ZedBoard to Wi-Fi For doing it I'm going to use ESP1 module which is using the ESP8266 Chip okay This is a very cheap module like and in there is 245 that's like under $4 And it's available in any country if you search You may get it from the original one from Adafroat or any of the rebuffs, all of them usually work. So we are going to use this one and we are planning to interface this with our Z-code using the P-mode interface. Now this module is very popular when we are using Arduino for connecting Arduino to Wi-Fi but we can follow the same steps and we can actually interface our Zynq chip also with Wi-Fi.

So on ZedBoard you might have seen these connectors they are called the P-mode connector and there are a lot of preference which Digitlent is offering which can be directly interfaced with this interface. Now our ESP module it cannot be directly plugged in here because the distance between pins won't be matching so you'll have to use some male to female connectors to connect them. ESP module, Melt female connector, Out of these 5 we are going to use this P-mode connector called the JA1. You can use JB also. Out of 5 you may be able to use 3 because 2 of them they are differentials. Anyway, we will be using this interface for connecting to the ESP P-Module. And when you are connecting, this is the pinout. So this is like the friend view

of this interface. You can see there are 12 points to connect on the P-mode connector. Out of 12 for every P-mode, two are used for VCC. It's supplying 3.3 volt and two are ground. VCCS3.3, ESP module, 3.3, VCCS4-Lite, USB, microprocessor, so this can act like a standalone system but our aim is to make it communicate with Zynq. So for communication he can support both the UART interface as well as SPI interface and we are going to use the UART Interface for doing it. So when we are connecting it this is how we are going to connect it. So two pins should be connected to VCC good thing we have two points for VCC here One is the real VCC, one is like a reset signal. So both should be connected to VCC and this pin

to the ground I'm showing with the front view of the module so you'll be connecting using the pins on the back side yeah so connect that code in there and these are the TX and RX pins for UART communication which should be connected here as of now because we are going to use These beats from the FPGA to track. So wherever we are connecting RX here from Z board, from Zynq chip, this should be acting as his TX and wherever we are conducting TX from ZynQ chip which should be the RX interface of the UART okay so this is the basic pinout. Now let's go ahead and start the project.

So I'm starting a new project, let's call it ZWifi, or settings as usual. Let's start a new block design, let's called it ZWIFI or something. Okay so some of these steps, it's exactly same from a previous tutorial which is used for interfacing the Carac 6 game. So basically we are going to use the second UART interface present in the PS for controlling the ESP. So if you look at the processing system, it's called Zynq processing system. It has two UART interfaces inside PS. So I'll first run... So, we have a block automation. Let's go to the block design and if I go to MIU configuration, IUP inference you can see UART1 is already checked and that is connected to so-called

MIU, multiplexed input output which is going through this interface and which is finally getting connected to our UART2 USB interface and finally to our PC. So, you can see UART1 is checked here. Now we will go ahead and enable UART0 also, the second UART interface and we will connect it to so called the EMIU interface, Extended Multiplexed Input Output. So what happens is the second URT which is UART0, it will be routed to PL through this channel. Okay? So this UART will be routed like this and we'll be able to access it from the PL part also. So once I check OK, you can see like here UART also came out.

And this is the one we are going to connect to the ESP chip so we have to connect it to the P mode interface so we have make external these signals both of and let's call it ESP, DX and ESP-Alex. We don't need any other peripheral only this is required. If I check here so by default GP0 is enabled so he's complaining its clock is not connected So we can just go ahead and disable that. If we check, yeah he's happy. So just save your block design, create HDL wrapper and synthesize it. After that we'll have to do pin assignment for these two guys.

So first do synthesis. Okay synthesis is completed so we'll have So, that should be connected to RX here because it's connected to DX here. OK, so go here and this one, JA2 which is AA11. And pin standard should be CMOS 3.3 because that's the standard for ESP module. So just save it as an XDC file and now you can go ahead and generate bitstream. And that will complete the hardware design. This regeneration is completed so we will just export our hardware to SDK now and we'll launch the SDK. Ok, so we'll start a new application project and this time for the first time we are going So we are going to use C++ instead of C, because this project it requires some string manipulation.

So if you use C++, we have the data type string which will make our coding much more easier. So just use C++ and let's call this again Zynq with Wi-Fi something. Now even if you're using C++, the standard input output functions like C and C out there and not available. SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. So, a standard input output and which is the other input right? If you by default we usually have only one UART interface which is UART1 so it will be properly chosen here but once you enable UART0 that will be listed as the standard input output.

So if you use any printer function now instead of going into the terminal this will be going to our ESP MOLUTE. That should not happen, so you have to explicitly make UART1 as your standard input output. Okay? So that is the first thing we need to do. And now we can start our code. I already have the code, so I'll just reuse it and will try to explain what is going on. Okay? So in this example, I will write everything in a single file but next example, we'll properly put it into drivers and all. So these kind of files, they are familiar. As I mentioned we are going to use some string operations so we have to add this header file string to our project. Now SDK may give a warning

like unresolved inclusion that depends maybe on SDK version again this is a bug in 2017 it is there I don't know whether it is present in other versions also so what you need to So what you do is, you just close your SDK and go to the folder where your SDK is sitting. So this one SDK there under metadata, under plugins, delete this folder. Okay? This I got from Xilinx forums and it seemed to work so after deleting it, just re-launch SDK again. If you are facing this issue otherwise it's all fine. So now you can see like that warning has gone away and this is like our standard C program, C++ program Sorry, so we had to include this namespace, STD if we want to use the string class CAP Now as I mentioned we are going to use

UART interface for communication between Zynq and our ESP module and ESP module It can be controlled using so-called AT commands. So if you go to the documentation of AT commands, ESP, just search for ESP-AT commands, you can get a list of commands actually, so called the AT commands and this is how we are going to communicate. So we need to send these commands as strings or character by character through UART interface through the ESP module, then only he will respond. Now when you are sending, you have to send these characters and at the end of each character you need to send a backslash R and backslash N character return and you'll add characters also, then only, he will respond

Okay? That you need to always keep in mind because that is for an error we usually face. OK, fine. So first part is as usual since we are using second UART, we need to initialize that UART, that's what we are doing here, UART 0, we are initializing, we are just printing welcome and this is where we are sending the first command. So this command just means AT. So this commands is used to check whether the ESP module is properly connected or not. So if you send just 80 command, that is not listed here, simply 80. If you simply send 80, the ESP module it will respond by sending OK. If everything is fine he will respond with OK. So that's what I am trying to do again there are so many, I'll explain only the important word.

This function, if you see here, this is what it is happening. So you can see it is taking a string and it is checking what is the size of the string and it's calling this function, UART transmit byte in block mode. And if you look at that function, what happens is if you simply use the Xilinx function, you want PSN, this is the function from... So, Vivado, Vivado and Zynq, so, Vivado is a function of the Xilinx, so, Vivado is an Xilinx function of the Xilinx. Vivado is a function of Xilinx and Yilinx is a function of Yilinx and Yilinx is a function of Yilinx is a function of Yilinx is a function ESPSignCommand, ESPSignCommand only after sending this entire thing

This is not blocking, you call this function, he just checks any data is coming from UART. If it is coming, he may take it. If it is not coming, he will immediately return. So that may cause issues. So that's why again we have this while loop which will make sure he waits until he gets some data. Now one issue with this block case is if there is no data coming from Uart, We will be stuck in the Y-loop forever. So that's why we have this timeout guy, so we remain in this loop like 50,000 you can change the value depends for some time and wait for data to come and if we do not get data even within this time period the function will return okay.

So unless unlike transmission at some point he will definitely transmit but reception depends because if you send a command to ESP, he will respond. But what will be the size of this response? How many characters will be there? You won't be knowing beforehand so we cannot specify like wait until these many bytes are received. We won't be able to see it. So that's why this trick is used. So we are waiting for some time and hopefully by this time So, the next character will come and once he stops sending this guy will time out and we will eventually come back. So that's the idea so we send this AT command and this guy will respond and What we are checking is within that response. So these are standard C++ string method find

We are checking whether there is the term OK Within this receive data, okay? If ok is there you will just print ESP detected otherwise something has gone wrong So next one, next command is this one, ATW, AT plus CW mode, stands for Current Working Mode 1. Now this ESP module it can work as a host like a server or a client or as an access point or all of them okay so if you put it as one he will work either as a server or client if we put and if you put it as 2, he will work as an access point like your Wi-Fi hotspot or if you put test 3, he will be working in both modes.

So we are aiming to work as a server. So that's why this mode is one. Again, we wait for response. If there is okay within response, we'll say like configure the station. Next one is where you're actually connecting this to the Wi-Fi. Now, one thing I forgot to mention when you buy USB by default, The board rate is 115200 and in our ZYNC PS also by default the board rate for both UART interfaces, they are 115200. So if you come under General, you can see both are running at 115200. But you can change the board rate here, you can change board rate for ESP also, You can increase or decrease for changing the performance whatever it is.

So if you are doing it, you will have to change the portrait of PSUR interface also. These two portraits should always work. Okay? Out-of-box ESP works at 115200 and here also we are at 115200. That's why I'm not sending that command. Fine! So this is where we are connecting to Wi-Fi. This is the command 80 plus CWJP underscore Karen and you need to pass the name of your Wi-Fi, SSID as well as password. So these two things I have declared at the top. Now one important thing to remember whenever you give the Wi-Fi name it will be a string and the name should be put under quotes so that's why this additional Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, ILA-SPF, XS SSID and password, and again these two characters.

And we need to wait for some time because he may take some time to connect to Wi-Fi. So if you try to check the response before that, you may either won't get any response or he may say like BC. So that's why we have put 10 second delay here. We check the response and within the response if there is a string called connected, we will say like OK successfully connected. After that we need to get the IP address of our modules, because if you want to do any communication or Wi-Fi, you need to know the IP address of the server. So this is that command, we send that command and we will get a response and that's a big response I will show you and this is a technique used for extracting only the IP part from them.

Okay, so in the response, the IP part will always start with a quote. So we are searching for that quote. And once we find that quote, we will search only for dot or digit because these are the parts of the IP. OK, so we extract only that part and we will print it. And we will get the IP address and you need to send this command CIP MUX equal to 1 if you want to enable any server, HTTP server using ESP module this command should be issued that's a must so we issue it we just get a response We are not checking the response, it doesn't matter. After that this command, CIP server 180, This will start an HTTP server on ESP at port number 80. Okay so here he starts a server and

we just print like starter server after that we just call this function loop and so this much is This is the Initialization part. This you have to do only once for initial configuration when we power it up. After that, he acts as a server and he's waiting for any request from any client. So in this case, we can use a web browser also as a client. Now this style is again motivated by Arduino coding. So in Arduino, this much you will write in the initialization part. Then we'll have a loop, an infinite loop where he will constantly wait for any request from any client.

Okay? So this is just an infinite loop. You can see like this is a wild one. It's an infinite loop what he's doing is he's infinitely waiting for some data from ESP and ESP will be getting some data when somebody is trying to connect to our ESP using his IP code, using his IP. So once he gets some data what we are doing is within that data we will search for this one IPD so whenever a client connects to the server each connection will give an unique number now the ESP module 1 at a given So, whenever you want to respond to that request, you should use the same channel number so that ESP8266 is available.

TCP will take care of the remaining packet formation and all, he will take care of it. You don't have to worry about any of the TCP IP packet details. So what we are doing is we just wait for this part whenever we get a data from ESP and whatever is following this is the channel number okay so that's why we are We are doing this one found plus four because we are skipping one, two, three, four characters here. Whatever is following that is the channel number and here we are sending some data to that request again. So, in the current case I am just sending a dummy data.

So when our first request comes, I will send one. If a second request comes, then I will send two, so on and so forth. So that will be my response. If anybody tries to connect to me, I will just respond with a number. So that is why this I is initialized to one. And each time we get a new connection request, I will be incremented. So this integer we are converting it into string and we are calling this function sendData which is similar to sendCommand but under sendData you can see few more things are there. So whenever you are sending a response to a request, first you need to send this command 80 plus CAP send followed by to which channel number you are sending this response.

So that's what is given here. You also have to tell how much data you want to send in bytes, okay? So that's why I will pass this I here which is converted into string format. I will calculate the size of the string here and I am passing that information also here and after that you'll have to wait for some time so 100 millisecond I'm waiting and then you have to send the actual data. So you can see like your block transmit, I am calling and I'm passing this string here, byte by byte because this function it sends only one byte at a time.

So I'm sending it after sending I am again waiting for some time. After that you need to issue this command CIP close so only when you close a particular channel, that packet will be sent to the corresponding client who are making the request. So we need to issue this command after that again wait for some more time so that's what is this function is doing after that I increment and I go back and again wait for next response okay so this is how it is working it will be clearer when we run the code so let me do one thing Let me add this line, so what it does is whenever we receive any data from ESP, this guy will print it character by character.

So you can exactly see what response is coming from ESP once we find it out, we can comment it out later. Okay? So I'm building my project and next we program. make sure you have already connected ESP to JAWA. So when you power on, you can see like there are two LEDs on the ESP module, there is a red LED which is basically showing the power is good. Make sure that it's constantly glowing. There is a blue LED that will blink whenever ESP chip is sending some data to us. So that will be active only when some communication is happening otherwise it will remain off.

So make sure that red LED is on and let's go to run configuration, export it to bitstream also so we can directly run and turn on and run. OK so this is the total response so let's see what actually happened. So this welcome print came at the top, welcome. After that you can see this string 80, then nothing followed by okay so this part came as a response to this command okay so when we send this command he responded by this much it's not only just okay it will be 80 followed by 2 blank followed by okay why that print is coming it is again coming because we enabled this print under receive data. Once I command this line out, this will go away.

So here you can see I'm searching for the substring OK within this big string. So we found OK so we set like ESP detected after that we send this command This is the response for that command we found. Okay, so we set like successfully configured as core station and that happened then we send this one and he responded by this much okay the entire command followed by Wifi connected Wifi got so I'm searching for connected within this string OK, I got connected here. So we set like successfully connected to Wi-Fi then we send this command and this is the response. This much is the response, OK? So here returns the static IP for our ESP module as well as the MAC address of our ESP module. We are interested only in the IP part so you can

I am searching for this code here, so we will come here, after that I am searching for serial, 29, any digit or dot. We will reach till here and that part I will print followed by IP address, so that's what you are seeing here. After that CAP MUX he OK, but I didn't check it because if this much work that command will of course work If you want you can add that also here. Here we started the server and Again, I am not checking the response maybe ideally we should check I will add that code also and we are just printing started server and he came to this loop and he is stuck in this loop for there one.

Next time, okay now let's try to connect to our server from a client. Okay so you can take any web browser maybe next tutorial we will add more features so that we can do some controlling. So for this tutorial what we can do is we can just take a web browser you can use your phone also if it is connected to channel number here, 0, so whenever I am responding I should respond to that channel number. So let's see, so you can see like I got 1 here okay, so to that channel number I send one and here you can see all these responses that's why it looks cluttered. I will say like I need to send how many bytes? I'll say like I need to send one byte and I will send this data and I will close it okay, so that's what you are seeing here. 80 plus APAC into 0, 1. That means I need to send 1 by to channel 0 and I sent it. This response is coming from him, ESP module that he received it. Sent OK then I send the command to close it so he closed the connection. That is when I got 1. XSCT, so if I try to connect again here this time it is 3, 4, 5, you will see like sometimes we'll be missing some numbers here because browser will be opening multiple connections to ESP. He will try to connect multiple connection parallel connection but our code as of now once we get a request we are not for checking for any further request until this request is completely served.

That's why we will be losing some requests in between, which will make those high value to increment without that data being set. But again, this is a good demo to show like how we can communicate. Now I'll just comment this line out so that we can get a cleaner picture. So I'm just commenting out. So before programming make sure you power cycle your board because since ESP is already connected to WIFI if you try to connect again he will say like error so that case it's not taken care here. PowerCycle board each time we run the code.

So you can see welcome, ESP detector successfully configured as station. Now he is waiting 10 seconds to connect to our WiFi. Connected, he gives the IP address. Once you connect next time onwards it might be the same IP, there won't be any change. When you run it, okay? No print will come here now. He will just respond to our requests. Okay so in the next tutorial we will improve it. We will put it into a proper driver structure and we can add features like we can remotely control our LED, we can check for our switch position, maybe we can check for the on-chip temperature voltage whatever you want remotely through a client as long as your client or the browser whatever you use and our ESP they are

connected to the same Wi-Fi network. Thank you.
