Hello all, so in this tutorial we will be discussing one more example using the ESP1 module and how to connect our ZedBoard to Wifi. We'll be also checking how we can actually do some controlling of LEDs as well as read status from slide switches. So what I first did is slightly modified my block design. So I kept everything from a previous tutorial but I just added Our LEDs as well as the eight slat switches to my block. I just added it from here, you can just try it from here under board option so that you don't have to give any pin assignment once you drag and drop it here.

You will also have to enable GPC row so that through connection automation you can connect them together. So that's the only change in hardware design and just synthesize, implement, generate, pitch stream and export it to SDK. Now in SDK, okay, so as I mentioned this time I have converted everything into proper drive format. Now we have these two files, Wi-Fi.h and Wi-Fi.cc they are like our driver source code. Now since we are using C++ this time let's take some advantage of object-oriented programming. So instead of modeling our hardware as structure, we are going to model it as a class. So this is the name of my class, ES by Wi-Fi. And you can see I

have a bunch of private functions as well as data and a bunch of public functions. Now under private I have my UART controller under private and some functions are there maybe most of them we have seen in the previous tutorial like send command, receive data, send that, receive data block, transmit, receive but all of them we had seen in the previous tutorials so they're all same now instead of making them as functions now they are inside a cluster maybe we can call them as method but they are We are all private, that means we are not directly going to access them.

We are going to use these functions or methods to access our Wi-Fi. So again, we are making some advantage of object-oriented programming so I will have a function overloading here. So I have an init function to initialize Wi-Fi but both of them they are taking different number of arguments you can see. Similarly, I have another function called getPacket that are two of them. Again, one is not taking any argument, one is taking an argument we'll discuss. Then I have another functions sendPacket for sending and this is the source code so let's see what is in the source code. So the first main function is this one init Wi-Fi. So you can see there are two flavors of them. In the first flavor

This guy is taking only two arguments, string type argument. And if you are using this one, the first one, you will have to pass the Wi-Fi SSID, Wi-Fi name as well as password for initializing the Wi-fi. In the second option it is taking three arguments. Okay? So the first argument is the board rate. The other two are again SSID and password. Now yesterday I mentioned ESP chip, it always works at 115200 by default when you buy it. But it is possible to change the port right by issuing some command. Now if you wish to increase the speed of communication between your ZedBoard and the ESP chip, you can operate at a higher board rate.

So what is the highest board rate that is supported will be decided not only by ESP but also by our UART controller. So if you go to our block design here, if you go under General, you can see UART 0 we are using, maximum vote rate is this one, 921 600. So you can give any of these values and they will be operating at this portrait. This is the default network-1, but you can use a higher portrait if you want to have better speed between ESP and our Zynq. But don't try to give any value above this, it might not be working. And again you don't give any random values because portraits they work only on some fixed predefined values and these are those values so you have to give one of these values. Now once you power

Now cycle the board, it will again come back to 1152. So, let's come back here. Let's look at that initwifi function. Here you can see both of them are here. First part is same in both cases. I'm just initializing my UART and if you're using board write, here you can see I am issuing this AT command and this is the command used for changing the board write for ESP80 plus UART underscore CUR, that means change the portrait for current session. Once you pause it will go back to the previous one. There is a command to permanently change it so if you are using it you should be very careful. Okay so we are changing only for current session and we are checking the response. It should be okay I'm not checking what it is but you need to read it and discard it. And here we are changing the change the board rate for PSUART. We need to change his board rate also, then only they will be in sync. And again, we are checking the response of this function. If it is saying like it is not successful, we will print board rate error. After that, we are calling this function initESP. In both cases we are calling this function ATSP with SSID and parcel. Okay, so init ESP is this function and we have seen all these commands yesterday they are the same commands.

So we issue the AT command, we change the mode here and here we are trying to connect to Wi-Fi. So this part I have slightly modified you can read and check what is happening. So now, even if you are already connected to Wi-Fi and if you try to reconnect, no issue. He can connect. In previous tutorial, if it is already connected, it won't work because he will first disconnect and he will reconnect. So I have modified it. Even if it is all ready connected, it is perfectly fine. He will disconnect and reconnect if you call this function again.

So that's how it is modified, and this we have seen to get the IP address, we print the IP address, we enable the MUX, we enable server, and we return. That's what this init function is doing. Okay so if I look at my main.cc you can see first I am creating an object of my Wi-Fi and I'm using a do-while loop to make sure he remains in this loop until he successfully connects to Wi-Fi. So you can see here, I'm calling myWiFi.initWiFi And this is the board rate I am passing. This is the highest board rate supported. I'm passing the SSID and password. Now SSID and Password again, previous tutorial I mentioned we need some extra quotes at the beginning and end.

Now that is already taken care in the code itself. Here itself you can see I am adding it. So when you are passing it, you don't have to put those extra things, you just have to declare them as string. And he will take care of it and he will do that initialization part and he will come out. After that we call this loop function and we pass this object here and you can see what is happening in the loop function. So, in the loop functions, in an infinite loop I will always call this function called getPacket. So, this is a new function but that is just an abstract function of whatever we did yesterday.

So let's see getPacket function here. So, getPacket, this we have seen yesterday. I'm just calling ESPReceiveData, we are checking whether we received any packet and whether this IPD input packet data, whether that part is there. If it is there, we will return that received packet to whoever is calling so it will come back here. So this function is blocking, we are stuck here until we get a valid data. Now the return is that entire packet. Now remember in the previous tutorial I mentioned when we send the result back, we need to send it to the same channel number from where we received the request. Now that part is again abstracted so you can see that the channel number

I am storing inside my object itself, current channel. So you can see current channel here. It is an attribute of my object, so that information I am storing here, I'm sending So, these are two flavors of them. One is without any argument and one is with the argument. So this argument acts as a filter. So when you call this function, you can pass a filter so that only if this portion is present in that packet then only the function will return otherwise the function will never return. SoC, he will be stuck. For example you are expecting a packet for your LED Some LED information which your LEDs should be clone so you always check the packet whether it contains the string LED

so when you're calling from here you can pass the filter here like LED It will come here, he will check that is there If it is there, he will return the entire packet. Otherwise, he's stuck here until you get a packet with that information. Makes sense? Now let's see the main code. So as I mentioned, first we initialize it then we call this loop inside the loop. OK, I'm not passing any filter here. I'm just waiting for a packet. Whenever I get a packet, first I will check whether the information LED equals is present within that packet. If it is present, what I will do here, I will send back this message to whoever sent this packet, turn on LED basically our browser and within this packet, I'm assuming

whoever is connecting to our ESP the server he will have a field called LED equal to followed by LUDs in a string format. So it's like 10101111, something like this. So each of them represent whether the corresponding LED is on or off. So this is my assumption. So whoever is sending data they should send like this, the packet. So what I'm doing is okay so after LED I will LED information, I am extracting that part using the substring. You can see eight characters I'm extracting and from that eight characters converting it into an integer. It's written string to bin actually it is string to num kind of thing anyway and that value I'm writing XPAR-GPIO0 base address, XPAR GPIU0 base address.

GPIU1 base address, yeah, XPARR-GPIO1 base address that is connected to LED. So whatever information is coming in that packet it will be sent to the GPI controller that means the corresponding LEDs should turn on. That is one case. Another case is, okay whenever I get a packet first I check whether LED is there LED is there, if I find LED is not there, I will check for this case. Otherwise also I am always checking for both. Whether this part is the switch? So if switch is there, my assumption is the current possession of these slide switches, 8 slide switches, I should send back to the guy who requested this. So what I'm doing is I'm reading from XEGPIO0 base address

that is this guy, so I will get the position of the switches in integer format. Now according to this function into binary string, so he will convert that switch position into a string representing all positions and that information I will just send back so that to the client so that the client receives the current switch position. Ok, so I guess it makes sense. Now let's run it and see what is actually happening. So let me first program it. So now this is how you will see, so these dots will come until he connects to Wi-Fi, successful So, he connected. Now he gave the IP address and he is saying like successfully started HTTP server and he will be stuck there now he's just waiting for some packet to come. Okay?

So let's send some packet so you take this IP go to a web browser you type the IP so we are communicating with this particular IP now as I mentioned I want to turn on some LEDs So you just type slash LED equal to whatever LED position you need. So just type 10101010. And let's send back that and you can see same LEDs turn on so now let me just change it to 111100. Let's try, you can see those four LEDs are turned on. On the screen you can see like LED turned on LEDs that message is coming from here then we are sending it now let's try the switch one okay so instead of LED let me type switch and switch is enough but let's try like a query and let me

keep them 1, 4 of them on and this one also on. Let's see. So you can see switch position 111100, right? Now let's turn all of them on, and try. You can see all of them own. Now let's try SPI, both switch as well as LED, LED equal to 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1, OK so you can see LEDs have changed but here we send this message to that channel so this second message won't be going So, you can slightly modify it so that both messages go. You can combine them to a single message and send that also. Anyway, basically it is working.

When you are building any system, if you want to send any message, you type this IP followed by what message you want to and you can see all the messages coming because of this debug print, Wi-Fi connected, he is waiting for that OK thing, OK, IP address, OK, successfully started HTTP. Now let's try the same thing before if I am sending this message, OK, let's see what he actually received. Okay, so this is what he received. So this is a HTTP message called a GET message. Again those who know about HTTP there are different kind of packets. The GET packet is usually sent by a client to server to get some page information. So there will be like GET packet, POST packet, different kinds of packets. Anyway, so you can see it's the GET packet

and whatever you put here will be immediately coming after this GET, the HTTP version, then IP of the host, then subsequent things. So whatever you are putting here it will directly come to this guy that's why he is able to work. Now instead of browser if you need more interactive things we can of course do it we can write some Python code and we can have better control for example, we can read some switch position based on those switch position, we can do some further So, that we can do in a browser but better it will be to do in Python.

Maybe I'll put a tutorial on that also. So this tutorial I'm stopping here so please try this out those who have access to ESP chip. Thank you.
