Hello all, so this is our third and final tutorial on ESPN ZedBoard. So as you can see on the screen on ZedBoard whenever I am turning on some switches you can see the corresponding LEDs are also turning on it seems like this is a simple design where the processor is reading the switch position and turning on the LEDs but in reality what is happening is all these Z- The program is based on communication programmatically, not using a browser but how can we do it through a program. So this is the Python program which I am using to communicate with the Z-Board and this program it is nothing specific to Z-Board you can use the same program if you want to communicate with any server, be it Z-Board or Arduino or Raspberry

We can use the program. The programs which communicate all the Network, we call them socket programming. Sockets are these software entities which are the abstract model for interfacing with network so again not specific to Python CC++ you can use anywhere basically Python is using these lower level sockets but they're using a wrapper for doing it so in those who do not know Python don't worry I will quickly go through it in one minute so what is happening is, at the top you can see I have specifying the IP address of the server with whom I want to communicate.

So now it is hard coded here but later we can give it through command prompt as an argument and the port number also. So AT always represents an HTTP server and we are running an HTTP server on our ESP. So that's what these two, then we are going to an infinite Y-loop where we are constantly sending and receiving packets. So in network communication, especially client-server model, the communication is always initiated by a client so he will make a request with some information and the server will respond to that request.

And once the server completes the request, once he serves that request, he will close So this is where we are creating so called the socket. So these two arguments here, it is basically saying we are going to use TCP IP protocol or internet for communication. So this is you're saying like we are going to use IP packets and this is saying we are using stream type that means either TCP or UDP. IP packets, Stream type, TCP, UDP, TCP, transfer layer packet, SOCCER, connection with server, ESP, IP address, port number, setting a timeout, That means when we are trying to communicate, if there is no response from the server after this much time, it is in second, We will terminate the connection. Otherwise, we'll be stuck in an infinite loop.

Okay so here we are creating a message, so I want to know the switch position first So that I can send a packet to turn on the corresponding LEDs So this we have seen before, so I'm just making a query kind of thing. Only requirement is it should include the word switch in our case. Okay? So switch and this is where I am sending this message to the server. So send all is the method we are using And this message, this is in a string format that should be converted into a specific format called the byte stream for Python So that conversion is done by this function, encode So he will take the string and convert it into a byte stream, a stream of bytes like a characteristic.

So we send that message to the server. This is a blocking function, that means it will return only after sending this entire message if the message is not sent within this much time, he will terminate the connection. Okay so once we have sent here we are waiting for the Server to respond, so in our particular case our server he is supposed to respond with the SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA- So again, similar to N-code you have to do D-code convert it back to string format and we print it after that we close the connection so in client server model this is how it will work You make a request, you get the response, you close the connection for next communication you start a new connection

We are waiting for some time, so I'll explain why this is needed And we are checking in the response from the server whether the term invalid is there. That means server is saying you have made an invalid request, so we can't do anything with that data. We have to go back and send a new packet. So if there is no invalid, that means the packet has some valid information, we'll create a new packet same way we connect and we make a new message. The message is LED equal to and the last 8 characters from whatever data the server sent, ok.

So remember from previous tutorial, the server responds with the current switch position and those positions will be the last 8 character in that message. So that's why we are taking the last 8 characteristics and decode it, create the message and send that message to the server. So it will be like LED equal to followed by the switch position. And after that, again we are waiting for some response from the server. Once you get the response, we print it and we close the connection again, wait for some time and go back to the loop and continue.

So we'll go back and do this. So this try accept block against a feature of Python. So if any exception happens, if any error occurs while running this code, What he does is, he will run this part. So there can be error when you are sending message because there is some timeout, When you are receiving message, when you are closing message, When you are connecting all these can create some error. If any error happens, he will come to this block, the XOR block and he will print what is the XOR error He will close the connection but he will not come out of the while loop

So this is the client code which we will run on our computer or you can run on Raspberry, anything which supports Python you can run. Only thing to remember is to provide the IP address of the data. of the ESP here, the IP of the server. Now let me come back to the server part, which is going to run on our ZedBoard and ESP. There are very minor modifications I have made from previous tutorial. One thing I have added is this extra packet with invalid records. So previously we checked whether packet has request for LED or switch, then we do the corresponding thing.

I had one more option, That means if the packet doesn't contain any of this information, If the client sends some random packet, we will make a response with invalid request because in client server model, whenever a client makes a request, the server is supposed to respond with some packet. Otherwise, client may hang waiting for the response. So that's why this is added here. And that's why here you can see He is checking for in-value in that packet because by accident something happens to packet and if the server doesn't get the proper packet, he'll still respond with the invalid request.

So that's one thing I have done. Modification. Another modification is there are certain changes done in this send packet function. Previously, what was happening is the server sends a packet and he will just go ahead and close the connection Now that depends on the scenario So if you are using a web browser So, what is expected is the server closes the connection and the browser will wait until he closes the connection. Then he shows the output then he closes the connection okay so everything works fine but in our code here what happens is as soon as we receive the data you can see here we are closing the connection without waiting for the server okay so these are two different scenarios.

So if the client closes the connection at the beginning, and if the server tries to close after that, that may cause some issues. Okay so to handle it I have modified the code here again you can check how it is happening If you don't get it you can ask me in the comment the specific detail these are specific to how clients and servers communicate over the network. So that's the only difference otherwise the code remains exactly same. So now you can imagine what is really happening. When I start my program, first he will send a message with switch position. He will ask that will come here. So he will read the switch position. He'll send it back. So that will come and he will show me the switch position.

He will close then he will check whether it is invalid or not. It won't be invalid. Then He will create a new message with LED equal to and the same switch position, he will send it. That will come here, here, and he will turn on the corresponding LED and he will send back turn-on LED that will come here and he is supposed to print turn-on led, he will close it. Now this delay is required here. So between every communication I mean closing a connection and opening a new connection, there should be some delay. That has nothing to do with the client-server model.

That is because of a restriction, how we are communicating with ESP. So we are communicating over UART, you know, and the speed of UART is much lower compared to this network speed. So what happens is if you try to send the next packet without any delay, because of the UART communication between each packet transaction, It is possible that the ESP may miss that packet. If you put it zero, he will definitely miss it. So you need to put some value here. I found like putting 100 millisecond is more than enough. Within hundred millisecond, he will successfully close that connection and he will send that information over UART so that he can successfully get the next packet.

So that's why this delay is here. So if it is not working, again maybe you have to fine tune it a little bit. Maybe you have to slightly increase it a little. Okay so now I will show you the output. It will be same as the one which you saw at the beginning of the video. No difference. So I'm turning on my board. Now I am programming. So you can see like before the sequence is exactly same, he tries to start and he gives the IP address. So this IP address we have to take from here, that's the IP of the server and we need to supply it here.

Okay again once he connects it remains same. So once the server is up we can run the Python. So, let's give Python my client.py and Sq. Now you can see switch position and 0.1 second it makes very minor difference. And you can see in between this timeout is coming that means he didn't get a response within one second. That's why the timeout error is coming. That print is coming from here because an exception but he retries so no issues. Now let me turn off all the switches so you can see they all turned off. So whenever I am changing the switch position that will be reflected here, okay? And the corresponding LEDs also turns up.

Now once you are happy with all these things maybe you can remove all these prints also, these two prints and instead of providing the IP like this hard-coded we can just give it as an argument. So let me rerun it. So this time what you do is python my client and the IP address, you can just give it as an argument here and you won't see any print here except when there is a timeout and whenever I am changing the switch position, I can see on the board the corresponding LEDs are turning on. Okay, so I hope this is a useful tutorial and you can try it out. Thank you.
