Hello, so in the next few videos we will be discussing another interesting topic called the Network-on-Chip design on FPGAs. So you might have heard that NoC or Network-on‐Chip is basically a network based communication subsystem or an integrated circuit. NOX they mostly contain switches and links which will interconnect different IPs or processing elements in general, and they manage the data movement between them. NoCs, they improve the scalability of system on chip and the power efficiency of complex resources. That's why we are interested in them. So first I'll try to introduce some of the terminologies that we will frequently hear when we go for NoC design. So whenever we hear PE or processing

element. What we mean is these hardware modules which will be actually doing data processing. So, these modules they can be specialized intellectual properties, IP blocks or they can be full-fledged processes and these IPs they can be homogeneous that means all these P's they are same module or they can be heterogeneous in some of them are processes, Some of them are DSP, some of them are the kind of IPs etc. So all these are possible. Now Switches they are used for routing data coming from one PE to another PE. So this is similar to a crossbar switch when we discuss the FPGA fabric. So there basically it takes data from So, basically they help in routing.

Links are nothing but wires which are connecting these switches together. So, they might be following some special protocol when they are transmitting data between these switches. Again, in our case it could be AXI-Stream protocol. It can be used to connect the switches from one of the other ports. So, you can see that the switches are connected to the other port. Topology is the arrangement of elements of the network. topologies, everything is available. Even lot of research is still happening. So some of the very common one are mesh, maybe that's the most popular. So in the mesh topology you can see every switch is connected to a PE and every switch except the one on the edges they are connected to four other

switches so that's what is a mesh topology. Now Torus it's similar to mesh but you can see there is a loopback from the last switch in a particular row to the first switch in the row, same way from the last column to the first column. Now torus they can be bi-directional or uni-directional. This is a bi-directionals torus that this data can move in both directions. That is what these adders are showing. Now this is a binary tree topology so you can see it looks like a binary tree. So, binary tree is also an example for indirect topology because here you can see every switch is associated with a P but here that is not the case only the leaves, these switches they are

connected with the P. The intermediate ones they are connected only with other switches. Okay so this is your root node or the root switch then two switch then four switch so on and so This is also a binary tree, but this is called a fat tree because you can see the link width keeps on increasing as you go higher in the hierarchy. Because if you go higher and the hierarchy, the total traffic is increasing so if you keep the same link width as you go to higher and higher, the effective throughput will come down. One way to avoid it is to increase the link width as you go higher in the tree hierarchy.

So that's what is called as a factory. So only four cases I have shown here, but we have ring topology, we have star topology, we have hypergraph, all kinds of different topologies are possible. Now topologies are chosen based on the cost and performance. So cost in terms of flow control routing and bisection bandwidth. So that's another important term, the bisection bandwidth. So one of the most important parameters in deciding the throughputs of a NoC is called a bisection bandwidth. So basically to find the Bi-section bandwidth, you should divide the NoC into two identical sections, okay?

Bi-partite. And while doing so, the number of links cut by this partition line will give you the Bi-suction bandwidth. So in case of a mesh topology, you can see if there are total N elements. So this is a 4 by 4 when you do a bipartition it is crossing four links. So effectively root of 16 that's why it is written like root n times the bandwidth of individual link that is what is the bisection bandwidth. In case of a ring, you will always cross two links. So it is 2 times the bandwidth of a link. And here in case of tray, you are only cutting one of the links so it is only one link bandwidth.

It's the bisection bandwidth. Again this is giving a crude idea about the performance because practically you know the link bandwidth that is also depending upon the clock frequency at which you are running What is the data width of the link? What is the special protocol that we are using? All these matters actually in finding the actual bandwidth, but this will give a overall idea about what is the possible bandwidth of a particular topology. So this doesn't mean the mesh topology is the best and we should always go for the mesh topology.

And that depends upon the other parameters that we discussed. That is the overall chip area how much it is taking, how complex will be your switch Switches, because here the Swish architecture will be much complex compared to a single ring architecture so you can see it. So we consider other parameters also. Now almost all the NoC they follow packet-based communication that means you are sending data as data packets and every packet it will have a header portion which will have information about the destination PE. So when you're sending packet from one PE to another PE the packet It will definitely have the information about that destination.

It may have other information also in the header, depends, such as what is the address of the source p, what is the total size of the packet, etc. How many bytes in the packet, et cetera. Now another term that we'll hear is called a flit. So this entire one constitutes a packet but a part of a packet, the atomic unit of a packet that is sent on every clock edge, we call it as a FLIT or a Flow Control Digit. That is when that word is coming. So your header is also a FLIT here. This is another FLIT, this is another FLITT so on and so forth.

So one packet may be composed of one or more FLITs. Now another important thing is the circuit switching and packet switching. So in circuit switching, what happens is this is a very generic not only to NoC. You might hear this term often, circuit switching and packet switching especially in mobile communication also or phone communication any computer network you will see. In circuit switching whenever two parties communicate the communication link is initially established. They are either permanently established or temporarily established.

After establishing the link, the actual data transmission happens. So all the processor-based systems that we discussed before they all come under circuit based switching because there is a permanent connection between the processor and the peripheral and the data communication always happens through this established link. Now in case of packet switching, that is not the case. Here the XR is taken by the packet from source to destination. In most cases, you cannot determine that in advance. That happens during runtime.

So most of all the NoCs and most of all modern computer networks are packet-based, packet switching based including our internet. For example here if you're sending a packet from here to here, the packet may go like and the packet may go like this, packet may go like this. We don't know it may be taking one of these routes and it will be reaching the destination. That's what we call as a packet switching. Now routing that is the process by a packet is delivered to a destination PE from a source PE. Okay? Now there are lot of algorithms for doing it. We call them the routing algorithms. Don't confuse it with the HPG routing. That's a So one of the simplest algorithm called Dimensional order routing, DOR, or usually called as XY routing.

So in XY routing what happens is every switch in the NoC This is usually used in mesh or torus topology. Every switch will have an X coordinate and Y coordinate. We usually start from the bottom left corner, so that's why it is 0-0. This is 1-0, 2-0. So you can see X is increasing this way, Y is increasing this way. So every switch will have a unique X and Y coordinate, okay? Whenever a switch receives a packet, either from his associated PE or from one of his neighboring switches it will always compare the header information from that packet with its coordinates.

So the header will have the information about the destination PE. For example this packet has an information 1-1, that means this packet is destined for PE with the coordinate 1-1. So this switch also has coordinate 1,1. So since they are matching this switch, whenever it receives this packet, it will deliver it to the corresponding beam. Now if the coordinates are not matching, what it does is it will first compare the X-coordinate of the packet with its coordinate. So here the X-ordinate of the packet is 2 and the coordinate of the switch is 1.

If the coordinate in the packet is larger, the packet is routed right, because it is more than this one. So it will go this way. If it is less, it will be routed left. So we are comparing the X-coordinate first. That's why it is called an XY-router. Now in case of bidirectional you can send it either right or left depending upon the coordinate value. Unidirectional, it will be always either right or always either left depends. But ultimately at some point the X-coordinate in the packet will match with the X- coordinate of one of the switches.

Now once the X-ordinates matches, so in this case you can see, so this is the same packet before it came here. Now the X- coordinates are matching, it will compare the Y-coordinate. Again, if the Y coordinate in the packet is larger it will send it up. If it is smaller it will send it down so in this case it will be going up it will reach here then these two coordinates are matching that means this packet will be delivered to this P. Now another important thing is whenever you are using an NoC ultimately the data for processing it has to come from Xtor word from some sensor or from wherever, it should get processed and processed data should go out to the external one.

So for enabling it, one of the P's or one of the switches will be interfaced with an external world using a particular bus protocol. So usually we use this lower PE bottom left corner for interfacing with the external one another challenge that we will face in packet switching is this out of order delivery. Since circuit switching, you know the link is already established so the data will be delivered in the same order which is transmitted, no issues. But in packet switching that is not the case. Depending upon the traffic in the oral network, the packet that you send first may be delivered at the last.

So there'll be changing order. But for many applications it is important that the final data should follow the initial order. Then you send it back to the external one. For example, our image processing, we are sending pixel information one by one. And when you get it back, they should follow the same pixel order that you sent. Okay? So for that, you will need some reordering logic. We should do this packet reordering. So this is usually achieved by adding a packet number field in the header along with the destination PEE address. So there will be some logic which should be looking at this packet number and based on the number he will reorder the packet before finally sending it back to the external.

So that's it, this is the introduction to the NoC. So in the next tutorial we will see the actual boarding and we will actually try an example on real hardware also. Thank you.
