Okay, now let's discuss the implementation of an actual NOC. So this NOC I am calling it an OpenNOC just to implicate that this is an open source NOC implementation. I'm not calling it Zynoc because this can be implemented in any FPGA because it does not depend upon any FPGAs IP cores. Okay so this is the basic architecture so from the figure you can see it has a torus architecture. It is a unidirectional torus, that means data travels only in one direction here, only from left to right and here from top to bottom in this direction. So unidirectionals torus. So the main motivation for this NOG is to minimize the resource utilization.

The penalty that we are paying here is in terms of, The cross-section bandwidth is relatively low here, but as we will see the resource utilization for this knob is pretty low. And these are the switches and these are the P's, the processing elements as I discussed before. The P that depends upon the particular application that we are aiming for. The routing infrastructure remains same throughout. So this is one case where we will be using this for example here you can see all the PE interfaces I have combined them and it is coming out as a single flattened interface so what we do is we will create our PE separately and we will plug in those PEs here. The advantage here is if I

do like this, this entire torus, our open node, I can distribute it as a single IP core which has a single interface for all the V's. Now there is a dedicated interface here, which is coming from so-called packetizer. So this you can see it's connected to the P interface of this bottom left switch. In the previous tutorial I mentioned you will have to give some packet number to the packet so that you can reorder them later when they are processed. OK, so that part will be done by this packetizer. And this packetizer will be getting data from the external world, that depends upon the particular application you are aiming at.

For example here I assume that is coming from a PCI Express interface and this is a PCI Express controller. From there it is going to packetizer and packetizer he'll be injecting that data in packet format to the knob and the NOC will be routing them to the P, from the P they will be coming back to the NOC and NOC will aggregate them and send it back to the packetizer, from there it will go back to the PCA controller from there it can go to the host computer. Now on ZedBoard we can't do it because it doesn't have a PCX interface but if you are using both like ZC709 or VC707, VC709 will use PCX interface In case of Zyrd board, we'll be sending data maybe from the memory XS-Stream interface.

Now this is the architecture of a single switch. So one of these switches that is what is shown here. So you can see it basically has three inputs. Data is coming from the left, and the left data is coming from the bottom, and data can also come from the BEE. Similarly it has three ACR supports, output ports, it has an output here on the top, output here on right, and output to the BEE also. Now the interesting thing about OpenROC as I mentioned before, So the main motivation is to minimize the resource utilization.

So this is a bufferless switch implementation. So traditional non-switches, they actually accept packets first and they internally store them, then they will be forwarding them. So we call them store and forward type of switches. But the switch that we are using here it is bufferless. That means he cannot store the data coming from the Inker sports anywhere. You will have to immediately send it out. So what happens is, suppose we have data coming from the left as well as data coming from the bottom. Now in which direction this packet should go build up and upon the particular routing algorithm that we are using? We are going to use the XY, ADO, and SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, XSct, ILA, ILA.

of the packets to the right and one of the packets to the top. So we are breaking the X-ray routing here, and at some point in time, because of this low-card architecture, because of the torus architecture, the packet which is going in the wrong direction will eventually end up in the correct destination. Now, this arbitrator is the one who is deciding which packet should go to the right and which packet should go to the top if two packets are destined in the same direction. Same scenario can happen like two packets, they both want to go to the bottom that's also possible.

So in that case also he will have to do the arbitration. Now because of this particular condition it is possible the switch will back pressure the P interface. So suppose we have PE here, PE also wants to send some packet. OK, so let's look at this scenario. PE wants to send packet. Packet is coming from left. Packet is also coming from bottom. But the switch has effectively only two aqua ports, only two aqua ports to the top and to the right. The interface to the PE, he cannot randomly send any packet here because PE is directly connected here. So whatever data is present here it PEE, P So in this case what he will do is he will back pressure the P interface, he will not accept

data from the P. So if you look here you'll see this is our XSCT interface, so this is data value to play these signals right? So he will back-pressure the P interface when he gets packets from both left as well as bottom interfaces. If he gets packet from only one of the interfaces, either left or bottom, he will accept data from the B also because he has two hexa-sports through which he can route them. So that's the basic idea here. Now this will be the packet structure so every packet we have an X and Y coordinate which is representing the destination B, XY coordinate, switch XY coordinate which is connected to There will be a packet number, again as I mentioned before for reordering later we'll have a packet

number with every packet and followed by the payload. So the payload size is not fixed you can have arbitrary big payload. The difference here is each packet in open lock is a single flit so in some locks you There is a header, flit which only has this XY packet number information and lot of data flits that together makes one packet here. That is not the case here every packet is a single flit. That means every flit will have the XY coordinate information and the packet number and repair order. So this helps to avoid a lot of issues like data drug scenarios.

That's one advantage. Now the size of XY coordinate again depends upon how big your lock is and the number of bits will be locked to the base 2 of the width, the height of the lock. And packet number also may be a function of the size of your lock so that at a given point in time node two packets with the same packet number exists within the lock. So that depends upon the knock size as well as the worst case latency of the lock. So based on that we will have to decide what is this field in. Okay now let's quickly look at the RTL code, so this is the code for a single switch, okay? This one.

So at the top you can see the interface and the old config to the AXI-Stream interface. We have the ready signal going to the right side, top side P similarly valid from left bottom P PEE, from left bottom PEE value, from right top PEE, XSCT, SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, ILA, ILA-SCT, ILA‐SCT, and Data SoC, Vivado, ILA, ILA-Lite, ILA and ILA-Site, ILE-Lite. We will make left PE signal high. Now we are checking only VANET signal because the ready signals are permanently tied to high, these two already they are the one going to the left as well as to the bottom that means these two are actually connected to the two neighboring switches The ready to the PE is not always high, that depends.

As I mentioned before sometimes we will have to back pressure. That's why ready to PE is not here. We'll see it down. Same way we have other signal left to PE, left to right, left to top, bottom to PE, bottom to right, bottom to top. PE to PE. So this architecture actually supports loopback also. So you can see data coming from PE, within that data we are comparing the X and Y coordinate And here you will see like we are comparing already also because that is not always one Okay now this is where ready signal to the PE is generated So as I mentioned before if that is coming from left as well as bottom We don't know where that data wants to go. We have only two heckersports So in that case, we cannot accept data from the PE.

So that is what is done here. Here we are making sure ready to the PE becomes high. Either there is no data coming from left or there is no other coming from the bottom. If one of the inputs is not coming, we will tell the PE okay you can give some packet so that we have some input to route it out. Now this is the interface which is actually doing the arbitration to the write interface, or data write. OK? This interface. So this code comprises this MUX as well as the arbitrator. And you can see those who haven't seen before I am using K-SEX statement here which is available in Vilog where you can have X also in the condition which is basically don't care.

If you are not using Kizhepp, if you're only writing using case statements, you will have to write hundreds of cases or hundreds of events. If Kizhep will considerably reduce it that is the main advantage. Okay so here you can see I'm looking at a lot of signals all the signals that we generated here ILA, along with the ready signal coming from PE is used for this arbitration. So here you can see like I don't care about left to right, left to top, left to PE if there is any data coming from bottom and if it wants to go to right I will always send it to the So this is how it's been prioritized in some sense.

So if bottom to right is high, I don't care about anything else, the data coming from bottom will be routed to right. If data is coming from left and if it wants to go to right then I will send that data to the right. Okay so if data comes from bottom to right as well as left to right the data coming So what should happen to the data coming from the left? It should go to the top. That is written. Vocabulary, Vitis, Zynq, ZynQ, XSCT, ILA, ILA- Data coming from PE will go as of PE data. Similarly, if data coming from bottom wants to go to PE and if PE is ready it will go to the PE, so on and so forth. So here you can see a special condition here valid to the PE is high and if ready to the PE

is low we will keep the valid signal to the PE high because that's the condition for AXI stream interface, the valid signal should be asserted high until the ready signal become high because of that we have this condition. So you can go through the code again initially maybe a bit confusing this part but if you sit and think about it all the different scenarios you will understand so the order in which the code is written here the order between In these two case X statements, they really matter. You cannot blindly choose some order here and some order here that won't work.

Depending upon what order you chose here, you should carefully choose the order here because if two conflicting conditions happen, One case should be taken care by this condition, this logic and one case should be taken care by the system. Okay so that's about switch now to build this node the enter one you just instantiate all these switches together so and this is what I am building okay at the top I will have only switches and all the interfaces Go into the P input as well as output will be coming as input output from this big knock.

That is what is done here. So again, those who haven't seen here, this can be easily done using generate statement. If you are not using generate statement it becomes difficult if you're directly instantiating So, you can write the script for the neural network. Depending on the size of the node, how many times you have to instantiate it varies. In that case, you may have to write some script which will be generating your mail or code the same way we did it for the neural networks because in the neural network there was a special condition.

Some file name I had to pass which cannot be done using the other statement. That's why we wrote a Python script to do it here. That is not the case, there is no file going to each switch, we are just sending the coordinate. That can be easily done using a general statement. So you can see again this is not a single follow up, you can say it's a 4-inside form because it's a two dimensional instantiation. Let me clarify this, when you go for synthesis, what the synthesis tool does is it will unroll these for loops and he will actually see the instantiation of these switches. So don't think like this for loop is directly getting synthesized or something like that, that is not the case.

So the synthesis tool Vivado or QATOS, whatever you use, it will first expand this for loop, It will unroll it so that these will become individual instantiation and then he goes for synthesis. Now there are special cases here because you can see for the switches on the right edge, the output is actually going to the left edge switches. Similarly, the one for top, it is going to the bottom but for the switches in the middle, connections are just to its left-right-to bottom. OK, so there are different cases. So that's why you can see different number of instantiations.

So, Vipin Kizheppatt, Xilinx, Zynq, Zynx, ZynQ, ZSCT, ILA, UART, ILA. 0, Y equal to 0. That is every other switch on this edge. Then X equal to 0, Y not equal to 0.That is every switch on the y-axis except this one which is already done. And finally X not equal to 0 and Y not equal to zero that represent every other switch here. So again and you can see the goal why that is done like that only if we do like this we will be able to actually connect between these switches logically so as I mentioned before that is happening because of this looping here that is different for switches in the middle and it is different for switches in edge. For this first switch that is totally different from all other switches

That's why we have actually one, two, three, four cases inside these two photos. Now this is the PE interface coming from the switch and you can see all those signals they are combined and they are coming to the top. So at the top you can see that is the data, this data. So the data width is interface width minus one. What is that interface width? That is total width, total data width, that is size of exponent, y coordinate, packet size plus actual data times x times y. This x is the number of switches in the x direction and y is number of switches in the y direction.

So x times y will tell me total number of switches in my NOC, this doesn't have to be always a square kind of NOC, you can have rectangular also, Vicious, X times Y and Width, that is the interface width. So I am taking the interface to all the P's and flattening them and giving as input output. Similarly we have X times Y Valet Signals, similarly X times Y Ready Signal, right? So if you want to change the size of the node, it's very easy. At the top you can change these X and Y values. Now it is an 8x8 node. You can make 4x4, 4x2, 8x4 anything. This is the data width and this is the packet number field.

Here I have configured it to 0. It really doesn't matter actually. The actual width will be the sum of this plus this and number of widths for X coordinate, as I mentioned before it will be a log to the base 2 of number of switches in X and Y, log to the Base 2. So we take them. So this represents this end-log. Now I can just make it to an IP core and later I can make some p's and make it into a different IP core if I wish I will show you how to do some processing, basically I learn some image processing. That's in the next tutorial.
