Hello, in this video I will be discussing what are modifications you will have to do when you go for a hardware software co-design with Vitis. So I am using one of my previous examples, this video on hardware software co design 1 where we tried to turn on LEDs using software running on the processor. So the source code for this is already available from GitHub so I am starting from that point. So the hardware development flow that is exactly same since we are still using Vivado. So this is 2020.1 version, so the block design flow it is exactly same so you can follow the same video for that.

So what I am doing here is I have already downloaded the source code. So this is the Vivado project and previously we have two folders here one is where all So this is completed, just make sure block design is still correct by checking this one validation. Just make sure address editor, the address has been assigned to the paper. So if both are fine you can just go ahead and ask to generate the bitstream And he will be generating the bitstream We have successfully generated the bitstream After that you'll have to export your hardware So we can go to files here, export, export hardware and now a wizard will be coming.

Previously there were only two options just export to SDK and you can choose whether to include the Bstream or not. Here you can choose the platform type, kindly we'll be using this fixed platform not this expandable one and you can chose whether to include Bstream or not here, pre-synthesis means here he will be just exporting that address mapping information. The XSA file, he won't be including the bitstream but better we can program from SDK itself, so or YT itself, so we can include the bitstream also here and finally this time he will be explicitly asking where to export, where to store this XS file.

So previously there was an option like store it at the default location, so he will be automatically storing in that.sdk folder, Vivado. Now it is not the case. You'll have to explicitly save where to store it. So better to store it in the same project folder somewhere. So I am here so maybe I can create a new folder here and put it there. So let's say okay Ytis SDK because I will have Ytis later and I'm going So, after that previous Vivado there was an option to launch SDK from here itself. Now that option has been gone. You have to go to tools and from there you have to choose launch Vitis.

IDE, either you can do like this or you can directly start Vitis from your start button. Now when Vitis comes up he will be asking for the work directory and again this time so unlike SDK he won't by default go to a.SDK folder. So you can see this.SDK folder that has been deprecated from Vivado version 2021 words okay. So this folder is not created anymore by Vivado. So since I already created this folder, I'm choosing that as my work directory and we'll launch YTIS. So, firstly I feel SDK flow was a little bit more better but maybe, since they will include those options to Vivado later.

And again unlike SDK is not going to automatically detect the XSFA file you'll have to explicitly start a new application project like our previous tutorial and when you come here you choose to create a new platform and this time you have to browse and show the XSf file which was exported from Vivado. Okay, so since we are in the same folder it was much easier and boot component yeah it was optional as I mentioned maybe you don't want that FSPL and here we can give some name to our application okay hello hardware software something like that.

NIN core 0 I am choosing, again standalone, YSVR choosing and we will start with an empty application and finish. Now from this point onwards things are quite similar to SDK. If you wish you can start a new C file and start coding there. The X-parameters.h had a file which was generated by SDK previously, is still generated by Vitis. Only thing is like I mentioned in the previous tutorial when Vitis comes up you won't be compiling any of the BSP file or drivers or your source code automatically you have to explicitly ask to compile it.

Now since I asked to start an empty project there's nothing under source folder so since I already have file, I will just import it. Otherwise you can go to File and start coding there. Since I have the file from my previous project, I will choose Import Source. Now this time SDK has a lot of options and file systems was one of the options. Currently YTZ shows only this option, File System. So you can browse and go to the folder where we have that source code. So previous one it was inside my.sdk folder, LED control, insert source folder from that just import the C code, linker script he automatically creates so you don't want that and just say finish and now we have the code here. So I am putting back these two things

so basically it will turn on all the LEDs and will also print hello on our terminal and after saving it remember to compile it, build it, build project. Since this time my aim is to program the FPGA also just right clicking and saying launch on hardware won't work we'll have to make a run configuration so let's go to run configuration and you can choose single application debug from here and all the All settings here does automatically stand alone. All these are fine, application automatically detected the ELF file and under target setup, program FPGA is automatically checked and you will need this. Also this post-config initialization that is also required because now we have

a peripheral and if the peripheral need to get that clock from PS, the post-config should IP1, OK so all these are required then let's check Tarata mode also, so that the Hello print is coming and you can just save one. So he's programming the FPGA make sure the blue LED turns on your board and now I can see all the LEDs have turned on and I can also see Hello print here, OK after this you may try with a different value you can try to bring the LEDs by turning it on and off and putting some delay in between. But again remember after changing the source code, now we need to recompile it. So this is the only difference when you go with all the version of Vivado and SDK and new version of Vivado along with Vitis. Thank you.
