Hello World, Since 2020, Xilinx has moved all their software development from SDK to Vitis platform. So in this short video I will be describing how you can adapt whatever tutorials we have done from SDK to YTIS. There are very few minor modifications that you have to do. I am using YTIS 2020.1 but the latest one is YTIS2020.2 and Xilinx, they are still adding features to Vitis fixing bugs and things like that. So again, there could be modifications in the future. So Vitis it is also based on Eclipse so as usual first of all you have to specify a workspace. In this first tutorial I'm just going to show you the Hello World example that means there is no hardware involved we are planning to use only the

ARM core, TEXA, and IIN core available inside the ZYNC chip. So here also you have to start an application project either you can start from here or from file new application project, you can start it. And from the figure you can see now, Vitis will be actually creating two projects. One is called a platform project and another one is called a system project which is basically your application project. So platform project, it has two parts. It should contain an XSA which stands for Signing Support Archive. So previously whenever we developed some hardware in Vivado, we will be exporting it into SDK.

So that SDK knows what all the references are there and what is the address mapping for that. So that file was called an HDO file, Hardware Design File or Hardware Specification File. From that he was creating the X-parameters.h.headoffile and he'll be bringing all the required and drivers to the board support package. Now that HDF file has been replaced with an XSCT file. Now this domain, that is just a combination of a particular processor and a particular operating system. So in our case we'll be using one of the Cortex-A9 processors with standalone OS.

So here again similar to our previous SDK, if you had a hardware project in Vivado, You will be exporting it to SDK here in Vitis and you'll be getting the XSA file here. Since I am aiming only for a software based project, I don't have that XSA file from UADO. So in that case, in SDK there was an option like Choose Pre-Configure Pre-Existing Card. Same option is available here also. You can go to create a new platform from hardware XSA and You can choose Z from there. Again let me repeat, this is applicable only when you don't have any custom hardware in your PL and you want to just use a processor core from PS. Now here this option is to generate boot components which will basically generate the FSPL files for you

for stage bootloader that makes sense only if you plan to put your hardware file, bit file and the OS files into an SD card. If you are just planning to directly send it through JATAC, this is not required. You can uncheck it even if you keep it there, no issues. So we can go to next and here you will give some name to your project, application project now we are building. So again hello world you can give and you can again choose which process of core you need since it is a dual core, core zero or core 1. If you choose this SMP, Symmetrical Multi-Processor, Stadler, it doesn't support multi-processor so if you go to next page only Linux will be available here

if you want to use standalone you have to choose only one of these cores so let's choose core zero go here and standalone you are on standalone now and again next again like SDK there are There are a lot of sample projects, you can choose Hello World project and just say Finish. Now one major difference in Vitis from SDK is, in SDK there was an option for auto-build which is coming from Eclipse that means all the source code will be automatically compiled when the project starts as well as if you change any source code he'll be automatically built it.

Okay so there was an opportunity to enable and disable it by default it is enabled so whenever you change any source file, he will be automatically compiling it. But that option is not there in Vitis so Xilinx is saying that it has some bugs from Eclipse. So they have disabled it. So that we need to keep in mind. That means whenever you are changing any file, you have to recompile it manually. So this is the project structure you will see and here you can see there are two projects Hello1.SPRJ, System project,.PRJ, Application project, So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, ILA‐S, ILA “Xilinx Vitis, ILA Everything is still there, only the directory structure has changed, that's the only difference.

So our Hello World example, okay this is the sample one given by signing so first of all we need to compile it, you need to build the project and when you build a project again you can go to project and choose build on, again sometimes this won't be highlighted if you have clicked any of the source code here and go there sometimes you will see So what you need to do is better, you right click this domain one and say build project. You can do it either from here or you can build it from the top also, build project. If you click on this top and say build projects, he will be actually building two projects.

He'll be building your system project as well as your application project. When he builds the system project, he will be trying to build that FSPL as well as something called files for SD card. And since we excluded FSPL when we started the project, it will be giving an error saying like you cannot find that file. So you can see he already built the application project now and he is running a command C, you can see SD card gen and that will give an error saying like, okay he cannot find that file. So if you have checked that option at that time there won't be any issue it will build it.

If you have unchecked it better right click this one Hello World and just say Build Project. So we are building only our application project. He has already built it. Once it is built as usual you can run it so for that you can either create your own run configuration Or you can again right click this Hello World and go to run as and by default it will be showing like single application debug. You can choose that or single application debug use the GDB, either of them. So first let me again take my Torata set the vote rate as 115200 And just right click and say run as launch on hardware single application debug and he will be launching it now. You can see the output here, okay? Or if you want to create

your own run configuration that is possible, that will make sense again when we have some hardware so there we might have to go to run as and first make a run configuration just like whatever we were doing with SDK. So here we will check this option if you have USB-G to program it and this force config, again this force config makes sense only if there is some logic in the FPGA. Otherwise yeah it can be unchecked also no issue. So basically this is how you run it now one more thing let me add if you want to change any BSP settings you can double click on this one and you can go to navigate to BSP settings, and there you can choose modify BSP settings because in some of the

project we want to change our STD in and STD out from UART so you can go to standalone here and just like SDK you can modify it here. Okay so this is a quick introduction to YTIS. In the next tutorial I will show you again how to export it from Vivado and run it in YTIS thank you.
