Today I'll be discussing another image processing IP. And this IP is specifically for something called histogram equalization. Before going to the red look, we will look at the theory behind it. So consider one image here. So you can see the image looks quite watched So we can say there is not enough contrast in the image so that we can recognize different parts of the image. Why this is happening? If you try to sort the histogram of this image, basically it's a gray-scale image, pixels can take any value from 0 to 255.

Each pixel is using 1x4 representing the gray level. If you plot the histogram between number of pixels at each grey level, you will find out the histogram is quite skewed actually. So it's not taking all the possible grey levels, it's taking a few grey levels. That is why we feel like there is not enough contrast in the evening. So we can enhance the image by distributing Xls to more gray elements. Here you can see one such case where we do some image processing operation and make the histogram more distributed. Once you do like that, yeah there is enough contrast in the image and you should be able to see the different parts of the image quite clearly.

Here is the histogram of this image after I do a certain operation. The one portfolio technique used for enhancing contrast is called histogram equalization. Now, this background about histogram equalizations I have taken from Wikipedia for easier understanding. So basically in histogram equalisation, We will use a mapping function which will be used to map a gray level in the incomplete image to another gray level in that opportunity. So first step here is to find so-called the cumulative histogram. The cumulative histogram at the gray level is defined as number of people at that particular gray level or less than that. Here for example, a simple Image Stator, 8x8 Image and in the second image, the transporting grey levels are math.

If you again in the table format histogram is given so basically we have pixel at 52, we have 3 pixels 55 and then so forth. So this is basically the histogram. If I want to find cumulative histogram at each gray level, you'll find the number of pixels at that level as well as less than that level. For 59, I have 3 plus 2 plus 3 plus 1. 9 is my cumulative histogram. So this corresponds to the cumulative histogram The next once you find the cumulative histo-gram we will have a mapping function and this is The mapping function used in this particular histogram equalization.

So for a gray level L, the new gray level in the output image will be the minimum histogram and L minus minimum cumulative histogram in the image divided by total number of pixels in the image minus the minimum histogr, minimum cumulative histogram times the number of gray levels in the image. In our case, since we are using 8 bits per pixel, we will be having 256 gray levels. So L minus 1 will be 255 here. And again from this particular table, we can see L minimum will be there. V So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ILA, ILA.

I do not see anything greater than 150 here because those levels, they also do not exist in the original image. But in the output image we have all the gray levels starting from 0 to 255. So here again there is a pattern between input and output you can see there. Strograv, it got more widely distributed. Now we will look at the basic hardware implementation of how it can be done. So we'll be having a bottom-up approach. We'll be building small modules for a particular operation then we will be combining them to get the entire image processing.

The first modules that we will be developing VITC, VITC and so on. So, I will be able to find the cumulative histogram at a single gray level. Okay? So here is the basic idea. So I'll have a calculator there that will be comparing my input pixel level with the gray level for which it is finding the cumulative histogam. So if the input pixel is less than or equal to this particular gray level, it will be incrementing a counter. So here we are assuming a streaming interface. I assume pixels are continuously coming and we have a pixel valid to indicate whether this is a valid pixel or not. This looks similar to AXI stream interface standard with a ready signal, and by the time the end-pairing may

pass through this module, I will have a cumulative history of the particular grade level. So one module is calculating the gray level for only one particular gray level. So the basic idea is you replicate this module in our case 256 times and we parallely process the image so that by the time I pass the entire image, I will have the corresponding cumulative Hittogram, each level. I'll be getting it. Now another module that we'll be using will be the module to find the minimum cumulative histogram because for our math function we need the minimum histogram, the cumulative histogram also. One trivial method that might come into your mind is yeah we find the cumulative histograms first but then among them we find the smallest value

because that is the minimum cumulative history. But that will be taking more number of clock cycles because you pass the image after that, you find the smallest number here. Again, you might not be able to do it in one clock cycle because that may result in a large computational circuit. So you'll be wasting additional clock cycle but by using this very simple logic, the same streaming TATA, we can pass through a different module and that will be able to find the in your cumulative histogram. We will be seeing the code later but basic idea is I have some register which will be during the parent minimum clear level or which the minimum cumulative histogram is obtained so basically idea if even if you

look at our table of cumulative histogram you will observe that the low OAS Cray Level in the input image that will be having the least cumulative historical. That's the basic idea we are using here also. So, here I might initialize my minimum gray level with the maximum possible gray level. For example, in our case, I might initialize it with 255. And whenever I get my info itself, I will compare that gray level with this gray level. If this grey level is less than this one, I will replace it with this current grey level.

If it is less than or equal to this grey level, I might increment this counter and if this grey level whenever it is less then the value I currently store, I will again store this as my minimum grey level and I will reset my counter to 1. So that's the basic load that we have. So, again by the time I pass my entering methods, I will have the minimum grade level here which I am not interested but the corresponding cumulative histogram for that grade level will be available here. So this module can sit in parallel with all these modules and I can pass the same into pixel into pixel value to this module also. Next one we'll be using of wanting to use the mapping operation. We have already seen the equation before.

So this mapper, it will be getting the cumulative histogram at every level which will be coming from these modules. So we got them in parallel. They will be coming here in parallel. Also we have the minimum cumulative histogram also coming here. So it will be doing that mapping operation and it will be providing us the new level. It also takes the total number of pixels or the image size as a parameter. Now, you might be able to do this also in a single clock cycle by doing it in parallel. You may end up in using large number of resources. So we may choose to do it in a sequential manner.

That means we will be finding one new level in one clock cycle and we may spend 255 clock cycles for finding all the grid levels. In my implementation I am using a sequential method to do it, you may try to do it in parallel also. You'll be spending more resources as the side effect. Now once we have this mapping, we are ready to generate the output image. For that I have all the new gray levels which are coming from here. That goes basically to a MUX and the MUX looks at the original image again and it will generate the output images.

Again we assume a streaming interface here so a particular gray level or a particular pixel Xilinx will be coming here and the MUX will choose its new corresponding ray level from here, that will be going as the auto. So basically this is the historical visualization that requires the image to pass twice because first of all we need to find the cumulative histogram only after finding the cumulative histograms we'll be able to do the mapping and for finding the cumulative history We need to see the entire image. So in the first pass, we'll be finding the cumulative histogram as well as these new levels.

And in the second pass, we will be using those new levels to generate the output image. So this is a new pass operation. So because of that, we cannot implement it as a real streaming interface. If it is a purely streaming interface, we stream the image once and we should be getting the off. That doesn't happen here. We need to stream it twice. First, to find the cumulative histogram and the new level. And second time to generate the output image. So since we are going to use a streaming interface, again my assumption is initially you may should be sitting in the Vidia memory.

You need to take it from Vidia and stream to our IP. For this purpose, we may use the AXI-DMA controller. But again, for this implementation I want it to be an independent IP. So I'm not going to use the NILINX VMA controller. Instead of that we will add the logic inside the IP which will be reading from the image as well as it will be writing the processed image back to the real memory. That also will have within the IP itself. So basically this is the idea, like I showed. We have the Cumulative Histogram Calculator, from there we get the Cumulative histogram. In parallel to that we have the Minimum Cumulative Histogram Calculator and from there we will be getting the Minimum Cumulated Histogram.

They'll be going to this Level Calculator which will be giving the levels which will So in the second pass, the mapper gets these levels from the level calculator and we assume that the original image will be streamed again to the mapper for the second time. At that time, the mappers will be doing the mapping operation. Now I have an image reader logic here which should be used for reading images from DDR. So that will be... So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, VDMA, UART, ILA-S All the control operations, for example, it decides when to read from memory.

And of course we need to read twice. So when to read first time, when to read the second time that is decided by the controller. Same way like XSCT I'll be taking 255 clock cycles or calculating this new level. So when to start this calculation, that is again decided by the control logic. Same way, there will be a control signal going to the image writer and only when this signal comes it will be starting writing the first of the memory. Now ultimately I need to interface the IP with a processor and the control logic requires certain information from the software side For example, where is the image sitting in the DDR and where the image should be stored after processing.

Those information will be supplied by the software. So software will be configuring them in some registries and control logic will be taking it from those registries. So we basically need a bunch of registries which we call as the Register file. Now for the processor to write this register, we need some kind of interface. I'll be using AXI-Lite interface for that purpose. So basically our IP it will have an AXI-lite interface for interfacing with the processor and we'll have a AXI4 master interface for reading and writing from the memory. On AXI is required enough for reading and writing from memory because Image Reader, it is using only the read channel and Image Writer, it is only using the write channel.

So one master interface is enough for both these logic. This will be using the read channel and this will be using a write channel. This is the theoretical background now we will be looking at the first code for this. We'll start with the code for the cumulative histogram calculator. So like in the slide, I have shown this basically contains a compression on the counter and it will be calculating the cumulative histogram for a particular level. So the levels for which it is doing the histogram calculation that is passed as a parameter here.

So at the time of instantiation we will be able to specify the level for which it will be doing the cumulative historgem calculation. So here is my framing interface and this is the cumulative history of the article. So you can see everything is parameterized and currently it is parameterized for input attribute of 8, and it operates for an image of size 645, 40. So the initial picture I showed you, This is the size of that image. So one drawback of current implementation is this implementation works only for this particular image size. If you want to change the image size, you have to re-implement the hardware. Okay so we may discuss at the end why that restriction

is there how to overcommit instead of hard coding it maybe this size can come from a register which HST software can go on further. That is one possibility which will make the implementation more scalable. Anyway, so whenever reset is received, we reset the cumulative history of them to zero. And whenever we get a pixel and pixel value is high and if the pixel value is less than this particular level, we increment the cumulative history. So that's the basic idea. Now later we'll be instantiating This particular module 256 times to calculate the cumulative histogram of 256.11.

Now next module is the one used to find the minimum cumulative histogram. Okay, so here it is. Again we have the frame streaming interface and this is the output which is the minimum cumulative histogram again idea is whenever there is reset V, V-SET2, SCUR0, NUCUMILATI, HISTORGLM. And this corresponds to this one which is the current minimum gray level. I am directly initializing it to 2 to the power of data with minus 1. So in our case it will be initialized to 255. So whenever I get a new pixel and pixel value is high if the current pixel is same as the minimum level that I currently have, I'll be incrementing the CDFmin. The CDFmin is nothing but my counter here which will be giving me the minimum cumulative exposure. But if the

pixel that I receive is less than the current minimum, I will raise such this counter to one and I will replace my minimum level to the pixel that I received. If the pixel is If it is greater than parent minimum, we simply ignore. We don't look at it. If it is equal, we increment the counter. If it less, we increase the counter and store that fixed value as the parent minimum. So that's the basic logic here. Now this file is TQLISER. This is somewhat intermediate level of high-level module. We'll discuss the control logic later.

So this is the port block where we are instantiating our cumulative histogram calculator 256 times. In Vetilog, we have a generate statement using which we can easily do it instead of copy-pasting at 256 times. We can simply write a generate statement and during implementation in our Vivido, which will be unrolling this loop and it will be instantiating it 256 times for you. Okay? One main thing is this generate doesn't correspond to any hardware implementation or anything. This is a shortcut for instantiation in our case instead of IP 256 time we use a shortcut and the core will unroll it for us. So here you can see we have a loop control variable, the generate variable I, that I is parameter math to compare value. So that's how we get

cumulative histogram value for 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, etc. Each module will be calculating for one particular Here is the CDF minimum calculator that we have seen and you will see same input pixel and its pixel values. So basically, the same streaming interface it is going to both of these modules. So once I've popped my entire image, I'll have the minimum cumulative histogram here and all the cumulative histogram values here. Now here again one interesting point is the 3D of files. So I have declared it as a single dimensional edit, that's why here this written like portal with less number of level times output. So as far as we are concerned the number of levels are 256. Again that comes as a parameter here to do our data with the

data with PFA and output depends upon our image size which will be log of total number of 6-dimensional. Again, this is declared as one dimensional because later we will be passing these values to the calculator, the level calculator and in VITLUG again there is a rule like your input output cannot be two dimensional. It's two dimensional in some sense refers to memory. It not be always a memory but it shows kind of memory information so that is not allowed and then we can do it in the same way. Maybe just a little longer, we might be able to do it.

So this input of this particular module, it cannot be two-dimensional. That's why this is mapped to one-dimensional. Otherwise what I've done here now is levels minus 1, 0 as one-dimensional and output minus 1,0 as the second dimension. Because of this restriction, this is mapped Vivido, Vivido and Vivido. So, you cannot have a variable at both sides of this corner when you select a particular bit from a larger bus. That's why this time is huge. Okay, so next module, this is basically the one which tests the mapping function calculation.

So again to save resources I'm not doing it in parallel, I am doing it in sequential. So because of that, I'll be using a state machine here. So initially it will be in some idle state. And once it gets the start calculation signal, then only it starts the calculation. So this start signal will be provided by the control logic and control logic will be making the signal high only after our entire image passes through the module one. and then the output of the module 1. So it makes sure the output of all cumulative historical calculators are valid, only after that this signal will be made higher. Then it will go to the exact state and here it does the calculation based on the equation. This equation, it does

it in three clock cycles again pipelining is added there let's say it is not done in one 1-clock, it takes 3 clock cycles to do that operation again for that assigned timing requirement. Otherwise, it may break the time if you do it in one clock. Same way this calculation will be using one DSP slice instead of you do it sequentially. If you do it parallel or together You will require 256 DSP slicers. Depends upon your FPGA, if you have enough DSP, you can do it in parallel. If you don't have enough, you may want to do it in sequential. So in my case I'm consuming only one DSP slice because I am doing it in sequential manner.

Okay so the basic idea is yeah, so here I have the cumulative histogram at a particular level I, so I is basically my loop control variable that will be going from zero all the way to 255. Again many people they make the mistake of writing a for loop here to calculate it. If you apply it to do a sequential implementation that kind of for loop is not going to work. If you are applying to do it in parallel in one shot, yes I should change from 0 to 255, which doesn't make sense. But if you want to calculate it one level per clock cycle, you shouldn't be writing a for loop directly, you need to do something like that.

So my new variable will be implementing by 1 on every clock edge. If you write it using a for loop, in some sense I and I subtract PDF min from that. It is basically this operation, that's the first thing that we do. Second operation, I multiply that one with number of levels minus one. Yeah, that makes sense. That is L minus one, second one. Third operation is I divide it with something called this division factor and I multiply it with something called as multiplication factor. So here are certain reasons why it is done like this.

So FPGAs in general, they are very, very bad at doing division operation. So we cannot blame it because there are no algorithms, efficient algorithms which can do division operation in a single clock cycle. Multiplication you might be able to do in single clock cycle because there are algorithms which can efficiently do it in single clock cycle using array multiplier and all. And inside of TGA we have DSP sizes, which are quite good at doing multiplication but it is not at all efficient in going with notation. Actually In fact, till a few years back it was not possible to use this divide operator directly.

Vivado, there was no support for that unless your denominator is a power of two. If it is a power-of-two, there is no real division operation, you know? There is not even shifting operation although we say division is shifting only by manipulating how wires are connected to the division operation is implemented. But now the division is supported and the denominator need not be a power-off two but That will create a huge combinational circuit, and that will hit your timing. That is one reason why the image size is kept as a constant here, because we have the image size in the denominator here.

So if I directly put it there, it will be inferring a huge combinator circuit and performance will be bad. Now, if you want to do it like that, you want to make the implementation quite stable and you could work with different image size and you need to give the image size to a register. Again, this operation, instead of doing it in one clock cycle, you may use an IP for doing division. It is available from the audience. You can use IP for division, but it might be taking multiple clock cycles or doing the division operation.

Okay? So that way we can make the implementation scalable. It may be taking two more clock cycles. That's the only side effect, but in my implementation I'm trying to do it in one clock cycle. So when we want to do it one clock cycle like I mentioned if this versioned, sorry, if this denominator, if it is power of code you can implement it quite efficiently. So what I'm trying to do is, I will always try to keep this denominator f out of rule. And I will multiply the numerator with some number so that the total effect of this multiplication and division will result in the required division operation.

Okay? So in our case, I want to divide it with total number of pixels minus minimum number of cumulative histogram. There is the second adjustment that I did. This term I am ignoring from the denominator. I assume the minimum cumulative histogram will be always very small number, practically also that is the case because this is a smaller stimulated histogram in most cases this will be one actually so that's why I'm simply ignoring it. So in our case, we actually want to divide it with the image size. So the image size is 640 times 480. You want to divide by this one or basically you want to multiply by Vipin 0.25 times 10 to the power of minus C. So instead of doing that what I'm basically

So what I am doing is multiplying it with 53 and dividing it with this large number. And if you look at this large number, it's the power of 2 actually. Look at power of 2 here it is. It's the power two. If I do 53 divided by this fifth number, you will end up with 3.15 times 10 to the power of minus 6, which is very close to the number which I need. That is one kind of optimization back here to do division operation very efficiently. And if it's one trick we do sometimes. Actually there is no division operation here.

It will be manipulated only by connecting wires. Only operation that is going to happen is multiplication by 53. It is not a power of two, but still using DSP should be able to do that once we get them quite extended. So, once all calculations are done, it will go back to idle state and it will again wait for this back signal from the control object in our folder, next we have this mapper again, if it's the input of the mapper which is coming from here. And so this output is actually coming as input here. It also has a stream.

So, this is the first module. instantiated in this stock module, histicalization. So this we have already seen, cumulative histogram calculator, it's output as well as CDF mean, what are going to, it's CDF mean what are going with it, KL histogram calculator which is nothing but the one which finds the new level. So the output of that is actually going to the map file and by input streaming interface that is also going to the method. But for, like I said before, for mapping the input will be streamed for the second time.

So all those are done by the control logic. Okay so that's also a state machine based implementation. One control signal that goes to the control logic is a pixel valid signal from the streaming interface. By looking at the pixel valid, the control logic can find out whether our IP has received the entire image or not. So once it finds the entire image that's been received, it will make this dark is signal to one. It is nothing but the signal used here for doing the history and calculator. So then it will go and wait here.

So here you can see it is waiting for like 255 clock cycle until the mapping function is over. and the connection is over. Now once it finds mapping, it will enable the mapper and also it is sending a control signal to the image reader we will see that module and this will cause the image reader to read the image from the DDF for the second time then it will go to the complete and again it is waiting there until it receives the entire image for the Second Time. Once it finds like, yeah, it is received for the second time, it will be making some done signal height.

And this one will be going to a register we'll see later which basically shows like the image processing has been over and it will wait for the start signal to become low before going back. Again, the start signal will be coming from some other structure. It will wait for that signal to go low or going to idle only because if it goes to idle state without making sure this signal is low, it will restart the entire operation again from the beginning. Because here you can see start is the disking, the start to again image read logic.

Logic, so it will be reading the image again. Everything repeats. So we don't want that to happen. Again, kind of handshaking. Start will be set by the software and it makes sure that it is cleared before going back to the ILE. That's about the control logic. So this is the image reader which does the reading operation from DDA Memory, so basically you can see the master read channel signal all of them are there. In addition to that there are few control signals, there is a start signal which is given by the control logic which basically says like okay you can start reading from the memory it also has the DDA start address which basically says what is the starting address from where it should be

Then it has again a few things you will observe. The VIT data is 32-bit, that means it is going to get 32-bit data from PDR. But we are expecting a streaming interface which has only 8-bit. So from 32 it will convert to 8-bit and that is this one. So we have 8-bit image data, image data valid, image data ready. So this is basically nothing but an AXI stream interface with data valid and ready. So, again it is a state machine based. We will look at two important things here. So the first size is the parameter which is set as 256 that means each read operation going to DDR LUT will be 256 and AR size is kept as 0 and 0.2, that means each bead operation on every clock cycle will be of 4 bytes.

So on each clock it will be getting 4 bytes or 32 bit of data like that it will be 256-bit in one burst. So basically, one burst operation consists of 1 kilobyte of the other. Whenever it reads image from the memory, it will be making read request to that DDR. And when it makes a read request, it is basically requesting for 1 kilobytes of the other Again, burst type is one. That means after each read, the address will be automatically incremented. So you have to look at the AXI specification to completely understand what the signal is then you might be able to appreciate it better.

So initially, the image reader is in idle state and when it gets the start signal, it starts reading. Again, here you can see there is a logic which is used to generate the start p-signal. Again, if you look at the logic, you will find out this start p is a technique to find the rising edge of an input signal. So basically it is trying to detect the rising edge of this I-start. Like I said before, this I-stop will be coming from software and it will get stored in some register so the start signal will be constantly won But for one start signal, we want this to operate only one.

So we want to find the rising adjuster start signal. So this is a technique standard that we use to find the rising edge. You make a signal, you delay it and you do an ad operation between the input signal and the node of its delayed version. That will give you the rising edge. So once it finds start signal, it will be latching the DDR starter address. It will be lashing the portal image size that has to be read. Then it goes to the git machine. This is basically an AXI master reach and an implementation. Okay? So it will be requesting for AR.

It will be making AR valid high, basically saying he wants to read, and here is the valid address. Once from VDIA we get a response like it is ready, this will be the assertor, address is provided up here then it goes and waits for the data. When it gets the data, it will go back to either, no in this particular case here, it will go to this date and it will be again reading and Do that with translation. OK, so again if you look at the board here, you can see the data coming from DDR. It is written in a particular order actually.

7 down to 0, 15 down to 8, instead of simply writing XAR data. That's because how these Xilinx VIFOS are operating. So when you have a 32-bit data at its right board, and if you have only 8-bit data at the read board, in case of Xilinx, FIFO's, when you read from the FIFO, the first data that comes out is not 7 down to 0 of the input. Instead of that, 31 down to 24 will be coming out first. So that is their logic. I also don't know the exact reason for that. That's why the order is through, where it's clear. So the first data that we get here will be 7.0 out of the 2.0. That's quite a stroke like that. Now again you will see what our data is This coming out of this FIFO is directly going as the AXI-Stream data.

This data valid is nothing but not a FIFO empty, so whenever FIFO isn't empty we will say we have a valid data as well as entered with its image ready. This is basically coming from an output FIFO, same module in the image writer we have another FIFO, which is used for writing to the DDL. So whenever that FIFO has some empty space for storing data this signal will be asserted so we are basically saying that FIFO should be ready and this FIFO shouldn't be empty then we are ready to give some data. That's the loads used.

Again, this FIFO is a first word for CRU-54, FWFT-54. Again, the reason being in case of AXI-Stream when we say we have data available, basically data valid, the data should be already on the data bus. If you use traditional FIFOs it will be having one flow-create latency because of that this condition won't be satisfied. That's why we use a FWFK5 for here, which basically has zero rates latency. So the data will be prefetched and kept at the offset of FIFO. Because of that FIFO, I mean, data will be already available.

Again you'll have to go through the code to understand what is happening. Simulate it a few times to get an idea. Same way we have image writer also, which is the reverse logic. So that is getting the image data. This data is coming from the mapper. So what more data is coming form mapper and the data valid? That data is initially stored in FIFO, which has an 8-bit input. The output from FIFO is 32-bit, which is useful by think to the DDR. Basically this image reader and image writer, ICS, you can use it in many projects So in case of Vite, the first IC step up on the 16th, which first operation will be 16.

So again, basically idea is whenever there is sufficient data in the FIFO, it will write to the DDR. Except that the last gives transfer where it is not necessary, the total image size is a multiple of the birth size. So in that case, the last size, right size might not be this square size. It could be less than that also. Again you can go through the analogy of how it is done. So in order to implement this last quiz we are also using the programmable empty feature of sightings like I will be sharing So you can look at it how it is working. So basically we instantiate image reader and their histogram is blazer as well as image writer to another file which is Xilite IP template

provided by Zynq. This file comes from Zynq, the IP template which we have seen in the previous video. I know where you generate the AXI custom IP, XSCT-Lite custom IP, this template is provided. So we instantiate all of them there and few things which are connected here for example. Yeah so this is The start signal, which is going to our control logic. That start signal is connected to slave-rage zero. So I'm using slave-rage 0 as my control register. With 0 or slave-rage-zero, it basically tells the IP to start the operation. So that is what is connected here. Anyway, image writer, there will be a signal right now.

It's signal is asserted when it stores the entire image in that area. So once the entire image is stored in the area, this signal will become high and that signal is stored in SlaveRage 1. So SlaveRage one basically acts like a data slave machine. Same way when write-down is asserted, SlaveRage 0 which is the control register that is auto-plated. The software will set the stat width, IP will clear the stat width once the write operation is done. This part is for the processor to write to the register, please do. This part basically the IPs writing to the register.

Now image reader that requires the DDS start address basically where is the image store that software should provide those name register too. Same way, image writer needs to know where the process image should be stored. The info is provided through Language3. We are using SlaveRage0 as control register, SlaveRage1 as status register, SlaveRage2 as image starter address and SlaveRage3 as where the process image should be store. So we are basically using four registers here. In addition to this, this write-down is also connected to the intro if not directly connected to the original one with zero which will be asserted when write down is tied is connected to O-intro.

So our IP will also generate an intro once it releases image processing operation which is a small testpad module, which is used for evaluating the IP. Basically, the testpads, it opens an input file in binary format. So the image that we want to test, we need to convert it into a new home binary. I'll be using a small open TV screen to do that. We will see that later. It basically opens that binary file, and whenever it gets a request from our IP, it says a burst of 256. And each was contained 45 because it is matching with our hardware.

In this particular case, our IP, which is reading twice from the memory. So in order to calculate that, once our test time sends the embed image, it goes to start image file and it key opens. So then the IP will request for a second type, it will be again every percent from the beginning of the type. So that's the technique used here. Since I didn't want to write it for the XI Lite master, I am using this hierarchical access which is available in at my target in ClearWish server. If two, they don't have any security there, we are not using them here, but this is required for starting processing.

So I am setting it to one and waiting for the alarm signal from IP and see slight that input coming from the IP once interrupting the scene, and VIRing on. This kind of emanating network software, which will be by VU later. Same way whenever I get the data from the IP, if you look at the signal, it's the same as a write value for basically our IP, if I take the memory, and we already checked the data. What data is being given by our IP? We are telling it in another part so that we can open and see it out of the window.

This is the basic IP design. This image prepared on time, that is perfect based on OpenCV used for converting image to a... So, so, so, and see that the image file, the size of this file will be same as our image. There is another script to research the whole image which is used to lead a growing and growing data anyway. Again, idea is quite simple. We read the binary file and we reshape it with The size of the Q-Wave and this is great. If I use it, it's fine. It's not our input image because it's fine, 100, 500, 500, 200.

It's fine we'll be using for simulation as well as later for testing a whole partner also. So now in Vivado, let's get forward. I'll be going through the IP core to generating IP. You can work with the previous videos on how it is done. We start with a custom IP design with AXI Lite interface. Now the bar module will be adding an AXI-4-Lite interface or code. and yeah, we add all our files on our logic here. We can record in there like again how this board mapping is done and how to convert it. We can interface which is an XM worker that is visible in the videos you can look up for that.

So on the XM worker sequence right here. Interop signal is also here. I recommend that spend your time. First we will run a simulation and then you simulate remember to keep the binary file in the XSIM folder of your IP project I will put the input in the folder, here you can see that there is going there This is where the first part is over. Now this might be the comfort, that time we are getting that at home though. I will continue this. Third bit is ALT.bin in the Excel folder. We don't get it. I'll see whether ALT is correct or not.

In that drawing, I changed the file name ALT.BIN. Here is our expected ALT. So, functionally, the IP is working fine. So next task is to learn entire system, evaluate it on hardware. So this IP is that case, I added to another project, like the one used to main project. As you can see, Vivado 2021 this time and the main project there is our IP, and the slave port of IP is connected to the kind of the bus master port of our PS. Master port from our IP, which was connected to one of HP ports of our VIN, I have also added an ILA network, I think it's a few concepts, usually to attend for debugging, but we can also see how sequence are going, The input is also available in ILA, so the hardware design is a little straightforward.

I mean the system level design is pretty straightforward. We have our IP, connect the slave port of our IP to PSTP port so that we can access the registrar and connect the master port to HP port so that our IP can access the video memory and connect the input also to the end of lines and power fields. Then we go through the flow and we find the template which we might have already done for today. Then we can export our hardware to OITs, and we can start developing our software. And we quickly going through the driver code.

So the code for OIT is written as a driver, We have STQ.h where we represent our other instrument as a spectre here, which shows the information like what is the paper press, What is the image size we are using and point is in the DMA memory because those images are stored and both of them will be stored. Now the software is quite scalable, there is no image size or spectrum here, it can be of any kind, remote like hardware and here is the address map of our IP. So it's labeled as a voice control, language one is status, this is where we store for DDR, so image, Chatting address, just chatting address of the process we made. Then there are a bunch of APIs for using the IP.

So the first API that we might be forming is we need the IPs where you will cross the base of the software IP which you'll be getting from X-Plan on the point of the variable which you can write. In the init function, actually I am allocating buffers in DDR4 scoring the event. I use this dynamic memory allocation again to make things scalable. Dynamic memory allocation is used. So the side effect of this is in running first code, U So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, Zynx, Zync, Zyn and V XSCT operation, 4-kilobyte boundary.

That means for now IP Littlause Core data, the starting address plus the portal size. In our case we are always using 1KV when we are making a V request that will not cross the 4-kilobite memory boundary. Now in order to guarantee that the idea used is We make sure the starting address of the image is 1 kilobyte alive. It starts with a multiple of 1 kilobytes. If it start with a multiple one kilobyte, and if we always request for 1 kilobyt server, if guaranteed that it will never cause this of the bound, it will exactly terminate after bound.

So that is why it is done like that. SoC, 1024, Auditional is allocated and here we are making sure it is 1kb aligned, thereby adding the address with this particular mask. So if you look at this mask, it's lower than bit per figure, that guarantees that the data and the link is there, the link used to make the buffers aligned with the input. Now these two FBI will help us with the buffer process from that structure so we are passing the in the flow structure from where it was doing the flow trackers. This function is used for starting our IP, so basically it will store these two back-right browsers in the registers on the X buffer and our protocol registry browser, which we have seen here. So in this case we store it

After that, to the controller display, it writes on. That will enable our IP and restart possibly. This API is used with the web IP is VCR card, which means whether it is processing image or not, as of now. Again, I use it for this state code, which reads the control register and it looks like the bit zero of control register. Pit0 is set with clear ethnicity here. Pit0 is that, that means as in bandwidth processing. In the hardware code if you remember once the IP completes processing it will automatically clear the control register. So in that case this bit will be 0 so it will be 0 otherwise V It may control register equal to 0, status register equal to 1.

Otherwise also possible you can keep on rolling until the control register becomes 0 or keep on rolling until just status register becomes 1. Once it becomes 1 from software we write the status register and we are in. So this is in fact clearing the input also because the input is directly connected to bit So you need to write the status register and make it zero for the input with the VF record. In case we are using intro, if you're using calling mark, We have to make it zero so that we can reuse the IP again. Otherwise the status register will be one for ever. Next time in your send-in image you'll immediately find status register as one.

That doesn't correspond to this movie, maybe it might be corresponding to the So it's important to know that the VITs are not So, this is part of the ISR which will be used for the IP. So here what we have done, you'll see where it is used later. Here the only operation done is layer in the intro bit which is nothing but that is registered. This is used for deleting the driver instance basically brings the EXANT In the main code, RAM using input is 2.0. So in the main, first we call the E-distogram, we pass the base surface on the side to make sure that I'm using the AK642480.

After that, yeah, I am printing the buffer and process while it's required to resume So what is the X-Proper What is the X ISR. So this is the ISR for my IP, with the link here. And we are also passing a point of the structure which will be passed to the ISR whenever the ISR is being brought. When the ISR it's called this callback reference will actually correspond to a point of the and we enabled it. So this is standard infrastructure core, we need to link our IP directly with this ISR. That point is important. Now in the ISR first thing that we do is we disable the info from our IP in the further info within a standard IP.

Then we are calling this function, so this is one function that we have seen before here, which basically this one, that is bit clearing operation. Again I could have done this operation here itself, if it's just to demonstrate how we get drivers from what we use them. So when we get drivers for IPs on third party, many a time it is possible. Part of the ISR will be played by the developer and part of the ISRs will be written by you. So this is to demonstrate how it is done. Within the main ISR, we are calling this function which is provided by the third party.

So it might be doing certain operation depending upon the IT. If they want to abstract from you and a DML operation, you will be able to do in your own ISO. As far as we are concerned there is nothing to do in our ISO. I'm only printing a done method for something that we are doing. And we enable that. OK, so disable the initial. Then basically, if I waste the input, then we enable the input. Again just to demonstrate what is a good problem for you. So that's it. We have both software development and we will directly test the ground hardware.

Vipos will run on anything or in the full software code, same code. I don't have to change anything, but that's more the kind of interesting. So first of all, of the programs, our format, then we can run the software. So for testing the code, first we need to score the image in the VDR and only our IP can host the file. But I don't know the address where it should be stored because the buffers are dynamically elevated. So that's the reason why the SCARTED is just a big figure. But you can either use... A debug mode that goes step by step and reads the error, find the address then transfer the image or you can put a break point on there.

Whatever method you use or you can run your entire code once, of course the first output will be wrong if we get it from running better from video. But you will see the address. That address you can download the image, we run it. Because in 99.99 days, since we are using standalone operating system, the buffer addresses are loaded will remain same, but I do not need to change it. Or what I will do, I will simply run my code. Again you have to create a run configuration things like that which I explained in the previous video. I'm not going through them again.

I'm just running my code one, so when I run my code, I can wait for the process. When I run my codes here I count out what are called, the TPS processor, the TPSR processor, actually our IP is here in software also, so I don't need to count for coming here. The theme is our sport, Ryan VSPD, one of the videos it is there. So here basically data transfer happens over data, data is sponsored through JTAG, it goes to the Griba port and from there it will be routed to the VDMA. So the syntax is now Python data followed by the file name, I'll be using NoC, noC, noRinq file, then we use input.bin followed by the address where you want to store it.

We want to store this in 0.08400, that is being downloaded and the, but I stored that. If you wish, you can read and see also through AXS50. So if I do memory read 0x08400 and type in if we want to see the location. This is what is in the memory, H3 959-597. And I'm already required a binary. I can compare it here. Here it is, H3-995-97. And you may find So, like this is in your test, not the case because it is stored in the template format you feel like that. So, the image data is there. Okay, since it is there now I will rerun my code.

Okay, okay, rerunning. Okay, I got the input again and then the ILA also I can see here with the signal going high. Here it was going low. IFR, it made the input signal low. And all the boxes that you are seeing here, they have write operations that are happening from our IP for storing the products we made in the moment. Well, so 16 is what is happening here. Now we need to take the output image whether it is packed or not. For doing that again many methods will be there and easiest one is to use this Dump memory utility in YGIF.

At first we choose a processor, so you can choose, okay, and the way view, and because it will be interesting. High location, okay? Where the data should be stored up for reading. So here except in the same folder, let me make that hard mode, hardware, all fours. Next one, we have a starting address from where we should read. That's why we have the RX buffer start address. And finally how much data we want to read? That will be the same as our UMA site. 4G, 4G, useful. All of them. You can see one screen configure all of them.

Open, you will read it depends upon how much data you are reading it may write sometimes. It's quite fast because we are reading only 300 baby. Read sounds to us in that way. And that's fine. So now I will check it. So with my co-remaint, I will change it to a point where output is not in. VIN, and the client, you will see it matches exactly with our simulation output. It is that bit about it. Okay so basically IP is hardware validated also. Okay so I'm releasing the source code, you can write yourself, you can include it also.

Like I said one good impression will be to make the IP work with any image like most and internal memory of the IP itself. That is possible, prior to the image size is quite small. So even 64480 it might be possible but as the size of the image increases, the size of this buffer will also increase. It might not be quite scalable. That is the reason it is trimmed second time Also from DDR, that may act like latency to the auto-processing. But this is more reliable, scalable solution like that. Okay, so thank you.
