Hello all, in this video I will be discussing about data transfer to a ZYNC-based board over Ethernet when the processor is running standalone operating system. If you are running Linux there is direct support for Ethernet, you don't have to worry about anything but standalone we may have to use an additional library for doing it. Now in many of the previous videos we had to transfer some large amount of data to the board. Most cases I used XSCT console which uses JTAG interface for data transfer and some cases UART was also used, both interfaces they are quite slow and also they are quite useful to transfer from your computer to the board DDR but for transferring from DDR to your computer

You may have to use some other thing like the memory dump utility. But if we can use Ethernet for that, the interface is quite fast and you will be also able to do bidirectional communication very efficiently. So that's why we are going to look at it. For this particular example again my intention is to transfer some data to DDR, process it little bit in software and send the result back. So essentially I'm not using any logic in PL, all the processing is done in software. But for starting the project, I require the XSf file.

So only for that, I have a simple Vivado design. I am using again Zibo Z7 port, that's why I'm going through Vivado to get the XSF file. If you are using Z port and if you have only software-based processing, the XSA is directly available in Vitis, you don't have to go through it. Anyway so here I have generated a small processor and I simply connected the clocks here and I have exported my XSA and I already have my XSA file here and now I will start with my YTIS project. As usual we start as an application project like I said before if you are using that or any of these Vitis, Xilinx development mode.

You can directly choose it from here provided you don't have any logic in your PL part. So I'll use my XSCT file here and at this stage unlike an empty application, I will be choosing this option, LWIP echo server. So this LWIP, it's a library which is used for lightweight internet protocol communication. So we'll be using this library for Ethernet communication. So again there are multiple examples here, EchoServer is there, TCP ClientServer is there LWIP UDP ClientServer is the, we can start with any of them maybe this is the easiest one, EchoServer that means our board will be acting as their server.

and our computer will be acting as a client. So that's what I am starting with. Again, later you need not always start with an example. Once you get an idea how to do it, we'll be able to add this library from our BSP and you should be directly added to your project. But this might be the best place to start this one. When you connect your computer to the FPGA board, For example, you have two options. You may use an Ethernet cable and do a point-to-point connection between your computer and the board or you can connect through a switch.

In my case I am using a point-of-point connection. So that will have some implications depending upon how you connect it. Whether you need to do some IP configuration in your computer or not, it depends. So in my case it is point to point connection, I don't have any switch in between. So we'll finish it. Now while it brings the source code up, we will discuss the IP related thing, IP address basically. So in this example code what happens when the system starts up? It will be doing a DHCP, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.

And if you have a switch in your system, the IP address to your board So, you can see that the IP address is connected to your computer. So, you will have to manually configure the IP address of your computer to a static IP address. Now, in the absence of DHCP, the default IP address used here in the example is 192.681.10. So this is the default IP. So your computer should be also having IP like 192.68.1.something, it should be in that format. and Windows 10, you can do it from your control panel, network and internet network connection, you can configure it there. Linux also you can configure a static IP. So here if you see I have configured it to be 192.168.1.3 okay? It can be anything other than 10. And the default

Gateway, here it is 192.60 at 1.1 so keep the same thing, same as the board as well as the up-net mass code, okay? Keep them same. That is one point. Okay so once it comes up we compile it and the duration here and in the settings again And I don't have any PL logic, so it is fine to reset the entire system. No issue with that and we run it. So on the terminal you can see what is going to happen. Now first of all you should be able to see this five auto-negotiation and it will set some speed okay in my case it is 1000 Mbps and after that here you can see DHCP timeout.

So because of that it is using the default IP address, it says like TCP echo server started at port 7. So first of all you should get this output if this output is not coming properly either there is something wrong in your connection or in the IP configuration. Okay so make sure this much is coming and you can also do a ping operation 9 2 1 6 8 1.10 and the board should be replied, okay so this shows like everything is good. So now we will start our modification, so here in the main code okay it does all the initial configuration again we do not have to worry about it after that it calls the start application function which will be doing some basic configuration.

So later we will be modifying them, whatever is under start application. After that it keeps the code in an infinite loop. That's it. So yeah, so if you don't want a co-server, you may come and this thing out, come and both of them out actually, just keep the time inside the window. Now, if you go to start application, this is a function which is being called. So there it creates similar to our port programming, it creates a structure which is representing a TCP connection and it does the binding everything is fine.

So again you can always keep all these functions. Now here you will see a function called the TCP accept PCB accept callback. The first one is the structure pointer which is representing the connection or the IP type we can say. The second one is a callback function, it is similar to an interrupt service routine. So this interrupt service routine will be called whenever our server accepts a new client from So, this is the So inside this function if you see, it is basically as a variable to count the number of connections.

Again not very interesting. Here you will see another function TCP-Roofti. So this is important. So this function called basically link again the connection with the receive callback. So receive callback is again another callback function similar to a interrupt service routine which will be called whenever the server receives some data or some packets from the client. So, this function basically hooks the callback function with the connection. Whenever some data is received from the client, this function will be automatically called.

And again since this is an echo server you can see what is happening in receive callback. So yeah, receive callback is called whenever some packet is received. First of all it makes sure like whatever received is a valid packet, it is not a null packet. And here it takes that packet or basically the content of that packet, p-point of payload that will give the content of the received packet, p pointer length is the length of the received packet. So basically the received data, it is writing to a TCP buffer. So this function TCP write will write some data to a buffer and subsequently that buffer will be sent out as packet.

That buffer can be sent out of a single packet or multiple packets that's all up to the driver and hardware but whatever you store in the buffer using this function will be eventually sent out. So, in the case of a, what do you say, echo server, idea is quite simple. Get some packet, write it back and send it out. So, it acts like an echo operation. So that's all here. So now what we'll do? We will be modifying this echo.c. Okay, so I will put the code there then explained. So start application, there is no change everything remains same.

So under TCP except in the original code, there was a function TCPReceive which was linking the receive callback with the connection. Now here I also have TCPSend, both TCPReceive and TCPSend they are part of the LWIP we are not writing them. So what TCP send does is it links the send callback ISR with the connection. So receive callback is called whenever the server gets any packet from a client, then callback will be again called whenever any data sent by the server is received by the or reaches The client, when that happens this callback function will be called because in my case I need to get some data.

I simply do not want to equate back. I want to send some different data. Okay, that is why I will be using self-cordback what is happening there we will see later. So, this is the only change here addition of this function. Now in RUSSEY callback let us see what is going to happen. So my idea is I'll be sending an image from my computer to the board. That received image will be stored in a buffer, okay? So that buffer is basically inside DDR. So I have declared a buffer here, image buffer you can see. I'm going to send an image with size 512 times 512.

Since again this is just for demo everything is hard coded. You can parameterize it or you can even use dynamic memory allocation, no issue with that. So whatever image I am going to receive, I'll be initially storing it in this buffer. Again, I won't be getting the entire image in a single packet, it will be coming over multiple packets. As I get packets, I'll be filling this buffer. Once I get the entire image, I'll be doing some image processing. So the processing I am doing is quite simple. Find the negative of the image, take each pixel from the image, subtract it from 255. That's the operation I'm doing. Now that processed image will be stored in a different buffer here which is called this process image

buffer and once I process the entire image, I'll be sending this processed image back to my client. Okay? That's the basic idea. So in Ruzhi called back function, here you can see Till here everything is same as the original code. At this point, whatever data I am getting through the packet, I am copying it into this buffer pointer. Buffer pointer is nothing but it is initialized to image buffer, but as we get more and more data that buffer pointer will be incremented by the size of the packet. Same way I have another variable called i which is keeping So we are doing track of how much data I have received, again declared as static so that it doesn't get initialized to zero each time we get a new packet.

Okay, so whenever I get a new package, I will be incremented by the size of the packet. Okay, so we'll be getting packets again and again at some point, I will become same as my expected image size. So once it becomes same as my expected image size, here you can see I take pixel by pixel from the image buffer, subtract it from 255 and store it in the processed image buffer. And simply we'll print like image received, image processed once it receives and processes the image. Once it is done with processing, it will make this processing done signal high which is a global Vitable, and this is used for synchronization between receive call back and send call back.

We will see it later. And at the end there is a send call back function again why it is there I will explain later. Basically we get data, we store it in a buffer once we get the entire image we process it, store it another buffer and make processing done signal high that's it. That's in the receive call back. Now in the SEND callback, you can see nothing happens until this processing done signal become high. So processing done basically indicates processed image is available in the proc image buffer. So again what it does?

It takes part of the processed image and sends it to the client. Now how much data you can send in one shot is decided by the TCP SEND buffer. That is part of the library by default its size is 8k. It doesn't mean one packet size is 8K, what if the packet size is again driver dependent and hardware dependent? And of course even that protocol mandates what's the maximum packet size everything. So that is its headache we don't have to worry about it but at any time you should not try to write more than 8k to that TCP send buffer.

So that is what is being done here. We are basically checking whether the remaining data to be sent is greater than or equal to this one, if it is greater than and equal to this one we will send only 8K. If it is less than that, we will send on whatever data is remaining. Okay so in basically in a loop we are sending data but you cannot see any loop explicitly here, because like I said before we will be sending some data. Once that data is reviewed at the client this function will be automatically called again kind of interrupt service routine so client receives a packet it calls again so when it is being called again we will check again any data is left if some data is left we will send that so the process keeps on going so the process

keeps on going until the sense size becomes same as image size. So once that happens, that means we have sent the entire image it will simply print processed image send and it will make this processing done signal back to zero okay so that is how the synchronization happens between send call back and receive call back. It makes it 0, send size back to 0 and initialize the buffer pointer to the beginning of the process image buffer. Now only catch here is the send callback function is called only when our client receives some data right?

So how does it receive the first batch? So, we have a check and a break problem. We are sending data only when send callback is called. And without sending the first data nobody is going to call them. Okay so we need to somehow force the first data packet out. That is why this send callback is used inside the receive callback here. So once the processing is done, the C callback will call send callback points which will trigger the first data transfer. And once the first data gets out, the client receives it and this callback will be called again and the process goes on.

Now we will look at the code used on the client side basically on our computer. It's a simple Python script based port programming for sending some data. So here again you can look at the document of socket library, what is happening? So we basically need the IP address of the server as well as the port number seven because that is where the server is running. So when I run this script it will simply print a message client and if you type quit the program will exit, otherwise it will be reading a binary file. So this is the binary image file of Lena.

Again in the previous videos I have shown the open CV script like this, prepare image.py which is used for converting BMP or JPEG image into RAW image. So we need raw data actually. So it takes the raw data and sends it. And once it sends the entire image, it will simply print sent image data. Now it goes to a while loop and waits for data from the server. And once it gets 512 times 512 which is the processed image, it'll exit from the while V OK, now I will run my client here. OK, we'll simply type send. Anything other than quit will do.

OK, I haven't generated the row file yet. So first let's do that. Prepare image.py Now I have the row image. OK, so we will run again. Client.py OK, send OK, so image with third image process, process image send here Send Image, Data Processed Image received. So now I can quit from here and here you can see we have received this one. Lenna-negative.row which is a binary file. So I will run my Python script show image with Lenna. If you run with Lenna gray, you can see the input image. This is what we send actually.

So, negative. This is what we received. Okay, so here you can see it is the negative of the image. The next time when you want to add this to your project, you don't have to start with that example project. What you can do is you can go to a system project and from board support package which you can enable LWIP. Here it is enabled... So, this is the first example. So, let's go back to the example. So, let me just show you how to do that. So, let us see what we have done with the example. So, let say, I will use the example of a SoC to get it working. Again, almost every ZedBoard the Ethernet connection by default is to the PS part. So whatever I discussed is applicable when you want to connect with

the Ethernet controller in the PS there are very few boards where an Ethernet connection is available to PL also. There also you may use LWIP, but we might have to make certain modifications that we can discuss in another video how to do it with PL Ethernet connection. Okay thank you.
