In next video series, we'll be designing a variety of IPs for communication purpose. We'll start with an AM modulator, officially amplitude modulation with W-side band with 4K here. Later, we will be also designing single-side band modulators as well as B-modulators, frequency modulators, and PPSK, QPSK, different kind of mode letters. Now no matter which mode letter you are designing, in most of the design you will encounter with unit to generate sinusoid and sickness. So in this first video I'll be discussing about how can we generate sine waves inside FPGAs.

There are NPE cores available from SIDINGS which can do this but we'll be designing our network, Ip core so that we have much better flexibility. So as you know those sign waves or pass sign waves they are analog and natural and since FPGAs are devices for digital signal processing or designing digital circuits we will not be able to generate this analog sign So the approach that we have to take is sampling. So we take a continuous value sine wave and we do sampling of this signal at some fixed interval, and we'll be ending up with a digital representation of this sine wave. So for example if I sample this sine waves in this format, These are the discrete values that I will be seeing.

And if you have a sufficient number of samples, you should be able to represent this sign with a good amount of accuracy. As the number of samples increases or as you reduce the sampling feeling, The accuracy will be much better, but that may require more memory to store these samples as well as you have to run it at a much higher rock frequency. So there are some upper limits on how much you might be able to sample. What is the sufficient number of, as you know, Nyquist criteria says like you need to sample at least twice the maximum frequency.

It applies what would be sufficient for a book signal reproduction. So we will sample it much higher, much more than like XC So the basic idea is instead of having an analog signal, we will have discrete values by sampling these analog signals that's how we are going to generate these signals and store these signals. So using a sine wave inside the FPGA, what we do is, yeah, we take a lookup table. So we'll be storing these sample values in a memory which is kind of a lookup table and using this lookup table we will be able to jump at the sine wave.

So look at the example here. So this is the first sample that I'm getting when I sample the sine waves which is like 0, so I will store 0 at the first proportion of the lookup table. Now if this is my second sample, I will take the amplitude corresponding to the second sample and I will store it in the next location of my lookup table. And I will be in that process, okay? So the third sample, I take the amplitude, I store the fourth sample, so on and so forth. So I'll be storing the samples corresponding to one entire cycle of sine wave, corresponding to 360 degrees.

I will take the samples and store it in the lookup table. Now later when I have to produce a sine wave inside my FPGA approach is quite simple. I use this lookup table which has these pre-stored sample values. And I will take a register and I will use it as a read pointer. So like you can see the read pointer that will be running based on a free running block, that means on every clock edge, I'll be changing the content of the read pointer. Read pointer basically tells me from which location in the lookup table, what to read I will get the values stored there.

So maybe here I'm starting with the locations in the row, so I'll get the values stored at location in the row which is nothing but a single row. So that will be the output that I am getting from the lookup tape. Next I will increment the read pointer on the next edge of the clock based on which the read pointer is operating. So I need a digital clock here, some square wave here and only on the posterior edge of this clock I am going to change the content of the read pointer. So on the next clock, maybe I will increment the repointer by 1. So now it is pointing to the second location of my lookup table. So the output from the lookup table will correspond to 0.382, which is like my second sample. So I will continue this operation. On every

positive edge of this clock, I will increment my repointer and I'll be getting the corresponding value from the lookup table. And by the time I traverse the entire lookup table, if you look at the output of the lookup table with period of the block at which the repoint is operating, you will end up getting a kind of sign there. So it is basically reproducing whatever values and then the other one is placed out there. Now once it reaches the maximum value here, here I have only 16 samples, so once we point it reaches 15, it will roll over and go back to Sydney.

And it will again start reading from Sydney. So by repeating that, we'll be able to get a kind of continuous sign-link. This is the approach we'll be using to generate the sine wave. Now, using this approach you can generate any arbitrary waveform which is periodic using this lookup table approach. So like I said before, the quality of the output may depend upon how many samples you have. So as you increase the number of samples, the size of the lookup table will also increase. So we may need more memory to store it.

That's the side effect. Now I can play around with the same lookup table and get different kinds of waves also. For example, instead of sine, I need to generate a cosine waveform because in the communication system you will see when we go for modulation many of the systems therefore have IQ based modulation scheme in phase and quadrature phase so we will need two signals which are 90 degree card, if one is representing sine wave the other one should represent a cosine wave. So there will be many cases I will need cosine wave also.

So when I say sine and cosine to tell the phase difference I always need at least two signals. The phase is always referred with reference to another signal okay so if I simply look at a wave I cannot say whether it is a sine or a wave. COSYNE, if I had two signals by comparing the phase I might be able to say it. Okay so for example if you need a COSYME approach is quite simple in the previous case we started the read pointer with zero that was the initial value in the read pointer So instead of zero now I will initialize the read pointer with four when the system steps. So the first sample that comes out will be 1, which corresponds to sample time 2. So the first value will be 1. So again this

we are doing because for cosine at t equal to 0, the amplitude will be maximum at 1. So based on that only we are doing it here and the remaining approach exactly same or the FD post-rehabit of this square wave you'll be incrementing the rate point by one so you and you will end up with this kind of thing. So if you compare this way as well as this way, there will be 90 degree rotor. So this is a way to generate phase shift in the signal. You simply change the initialization value of your rotor. Another requirement will be changing the frequency of this output sine wave.

OK, so you have stored the sine wave values here but it has nothing to do with the frequency of the sine. The frequency of the same wave that is generated here will depend upon basically how many samples you have because these entire samples they represent one cycle of sine wave. So it will depend upon the number of samples and it will also depend upon the clock frequency at which my read point is run. So, effectively the frequency of the output sine wave will be the frequency at which the Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, ILA, ILA.

Clock Frequency for incrementing the read pointer. Or in another way, if you want to increase the frequency of the sign wave at the output, you can simply increase the clock frequency at which the read pointer is incremented. Again when we are using FPGAs there is an algorithm on the clock frequency and which you will be able to increment this register PGA, maybe 100, 150, 200, maybe 250. It will work fine. But if you're trying to run it at 400 or 500 megahertz depending upon the FPGA family, you might not be able to do it. So 150 to 200 is a safe assumption but no frequency for we point out. Beyond that, you may not be able to undo it. Again, that depends upon the family of FPGA, the speed grade of this

and the overall circuit that you have in the system. So there, again this is another approach for getting better frequency using sub-sample. So in the previous approach I was always incrementing my read pointer by 1 right? So instead of that, in this case I am incrementing my, my read pointer 2. So the first sample comes from location, so you know second sample is coming from location two instead of location one. Okay, so I'm incrementing my read pointer by two always and if you compare the output that they obtained here and the output that they obtained previously, we see the frequency of This Q-Sine wave effectively applies the frequency of the sine wave I bought before, because I essentially did a sub-sampling.

I skipped the samples in between. So whatever was coming at location 2 here is coming at sampling time 1 here. Okay so that's how I did it. But if you notice the number of samples I have reduced, so the equation that we have seen and here, it is still valid. I kept the same frequency from reading but number of samples I made it kind of possible so that's why my frequency doubled. But the quality of the sine wave also deteriorated because I had less number of samples here. That's another side effect. But again this is a good way of getting sine waves of higher frequencies. So using this technique, even if you are able to run your beat pointer at 200 MHz by keeping the step size as 2, you can create a sine wave.

All frequencies twice the frequency of sine wave that you go by running it with step size 1. Now we will have a short discussion about how these numbers are also stored here. So to really understand it, you may have to look at some background materials on fixed point number of presentation. I will briefly introduce it. Many of you might be already knowing it. If you are not aware of it, you maybe want to look at it. So in this figure, the numbers we just took over here, I am simply showing them as floating point numbers, right?

Some fraction numbers and FPGAs they are not very efficient in floating point operation. discussion I had when we discussed neural network implementation on FPGAs also. Okay, if you go with IEEE floating-by number representation, the number of operations that you can do or the number of numbers that you can store is quite limited. So FPGA are not very efficient in floating-by representation. So instead of that, we will be using fixed-file and then fixed point representation. Here I need to correct it, this is basically a fixed point format, that content of let's will be in fixed point format. So when we say fixed point, that means the decimal point is fixed. In case of floating point, that decimal point

is not fixed, it floats around here and there but in case of a fixed point representation where the decimal point is, it is always fixed. For example, if I am using 12 pixels representing my entire number, So, so this is the first one. So, so now we are going to show you how to do this. and we will need at least two bits to represent the integer part. Okay, so in some sense one bit for storing the sign part because by looking at the MSP I would be able to say whether this is a positive number or negative number. If it is zero it's a positive number if it is one it's a negative number and one bit for magnitude but not the case exactly we are not using side magnitude representation

We are using again two-scomplement representation for number storage, but still it gives some idea what is the minimum number of bits I need. So if I am using power of 12 bits for storing my number, I need 2 bits for integer part and remaining 10 bits for front-row part. So my number will be always some XX, dot, XXXX format. Okay? These two are my integer part, and these 10 are my fractional part. So that's how we are going to store the numbers in the lookup table. So for example, here it is represented plus one will be stored as 0 1 4 or 5 and minus 1 here you can notice fixed point representation, minus 1 will be 11 4.5 10 zeros, it is not 11 4.1 by 10 ones because in integer representation minus one will be always or which

becoming one that's not the case in fixed point representation. Fixed point representation If you use this case, this is the smallest negative number that you can store actually. Okay? So minus one is stored as 11777. So how do I know it is minus one? So first of all we need to look at the sign. It is one. So I know it's a negative number and you take the two's complement of this n-10 number. So the two-scomplement of this entire number, again you can do one-scomplement plus one. Or a shortcut to find two-scomblement is you scan the right number from the right hand side until you find a bit which is 1.

So until you find it bit which is one, you rewrite the same numbers here. So this is where my first one is coming. So I will write that one, and all the remaining zeros. So I'll have 10 zeros there. So once you encounter first number everything after that should be complemented so this one will become zero. So two-scope limit of this number is 014.5.10 zeros. But you can try one-scope limit plus one-point, so you'll end up with same thing. And in fixed point yeah I had two bit integers so it is 01.00. So this is nothing but minus point. But if you look at this number, again this is minus and to find the number I need to find the clues complement so I keep the first one here itself

that is the first one that I encoded and everything after that should be complemented. So I will end up with 0, 0, 0 not 0, 0,0, 0, ok 9, 0, 4, 1 by 1. So this is a really, really small core, neural network in this case. Okay so yeah so again if you see the content of the memory there is no representation of this decimal point that's the beauty of fixed point number representation because it is saying the decimal point is fixed its location is always two bits after right I will have two digits after that I have the decimal point so it is always implicit because of that we don't store the decimal point anywhere. If you look at the memory, the table content plus one will be simply stored as this in binary format and minus

one will be simple stored as this. That's what we are going to see there. Okay so that's some of the theory part now we will go ahead and design it. So first task is This to generate the content of the lookup table. Again, we will be taking help of Python for that. Using Python, we will generate the content of the lookup-table and we will use that content in our... So, this is the code. So I'm storing those values in a file called Lactator.mif. Mif is a memory initialization file. Mif extension is used because Zynq's tools they understand the file format.

V and ICLOSINEWAY, which is 2pi. And my theta step size in the loop will be 2 times pi DMA per number of samples. That's it. So here is that loop. So why we go from similar to number of samples? And I have this function here, generate fix one representation. This is that function which takes an envelope. This has nothing to do with anything to do with sin or cosine. This can be used for generating fixed-point numbers, AXI. It can take both those two and negative numbers and it can give you the fixed point representation of that number.

So basically you have to give the number. What is the total number of bits used to represent that number that you need to specify? And out of this total width, how many bits are used for representing the fraction part but also you need to specified. These are the only three things you need to specific. In my case, I am using 12-bit representation and then with some fraction. So again you can look at the logic here pretty simple. If the number is positive what we do is we multiply the number with 2 to the power of 1.4 bits.

So the ideal is simple. So if my number is say in binary 11.110 and 11.1, some large number with something else. If I'm using 10-bit structural, I will be moving this decimal point 10 positions to the right. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. And I put it there. And I take only the integer part of the person. So I'll end up with this. And this is the fifth form of presentation of the problem. That's all that number will be represented like this. This is what will be stored in the memory. What I know since I'm using two bits for integer, 10 bits of fractional the actual number is V.

But it will be covered as V. So that is the case when the number is positive. If number is zero it will simply be a positive. Because zero has representation in the value. If the number is negative first of all we find the negative of the number. OK, then this step is exactly same. I will shift the decimal point by the fractional number of bits and I take only the integer part of it. And here is the additional thing. I'm actually returning 2 to the power of that doublet minus number. This is a way to find two-story length of a number.

of NUPR, again if you are not used before. Again example, if you want to find two-store implement of 1011 say in four bit representation I'm using four bits for my number of presentation and I want to find 2 score limit of 1011 okay one method that we traditionally use is find one small event that I want to that is one way other ways like i said before start and scan the number until you find the first one. That first one, you keep that and everything before that also you keep that and every bit after that you invert.

So if I do that here, I will end up with 0 1 0. The first one as such this one is 0, this 0 we can work this one. As the second method or you can also do if it is 4, There is 4, you do 2 to the power of 4 which is 16.000 and you subtract the number from that. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, ILA, ILA-SPF, ILA. 0, then again 1, 1-0, 1 and finally 1-1, 0. So you end up with the same result. So that is what is used here for modifying those components. So it will return the number and again that will be returned in decimal format here we convert it into binary because in my code I am planning to use read-man B system task in VIDLOR to initialize my memory. For that purpose,

the memory initialization file should store numbers in binary format. That's the only reason it is converted into binary format and again in binary format we will convert it into binary format there will be a prefix of zero b to avoid that prefix. We are skipping first two characters and since this is a text file, you need to convert it into a screen. So I will run my Python script, that generator, your file, and here is my task. Okay? So this is the first sample which corresponds to angle 0, this is second sample, and so on, which corresponds to this corresponds to 2 pi divided by 1023 VDMA, so on and so forth.

So you can see that start from 0 goes all the way close to 1 then it will start incrementing again becomes 0 then minus 1 again back to 0. So we should be, since I have 1024 samples, we should be seeing one somewhere close to 256 samples. Yeah, somewhere here. So yeah, so all these numbers look the same. This is one drawback of fixed point representation in the truncation. We've been using some accuracy here but it's okay. Again, don't get confused. This is not a negative number if you count the number of bits here, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 digits are there.

Because in case of Python it will simply ignore all the preceding Xilinx, so this is the actual number with the 10 fraction bit. OK, so this is the actual number. So if you want to find what is that number, which I do it, you can write when you want to make your decimal convert now. You can put the number there. If I put the number there. You can remember, this is the actually number. If I convert, this is what I'm getting instead of one, this is where I'm getting, which is SoC, VIT, ILA, ILA- 10, 11, 12, or 12 bits are there. And the MSB is what? That means this is a negative number.

And if I want to find out what is that number, I need to find two-fold limit of this number, which will be nothing but this, yeah first digit itself is one so this will remain one, everything else I need to fill. So I have 0.234579 times 0.2. L So, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 12 bits are there it is a negative number because this bit is one and you find the number and you try to solve it. So again so speed is one so that remains there and everything else fits. I will end up with 00 followed by 9 ones and this SoC, soC, I think 785, 10. This is actually, it is actually minus 0.99, I guess what is the difference? And again, the last one corresponds to 360 degree which is again, that's it. So

that's how VIT initialization looks like. I will listen in the actual lookup table. So here is the VEDLO code for our lookup table. So this is the memory where the samples will be stored. Each location is 12 bits and in total 1024 locations. So in the initial block here, you can see I'm using readmemb and I used the mia file that we just generated to initialize the memory. So since I am using read memory, number should be in binary. That's why we store it in binary format. This is the initialization of the read pointer. This is my read pointer 10 bit wide because the depth of memory is 1k. So when we instantiate this one, we will be able to specify this phase and since a phase of this is again in degree, we are expecting. So

Since 360 degree corresponds to 1024 samples, using this equation we'll be able to determine what is the initial value of the read address for reading from the memory. And here is the read address increment so every post-to-age we simply increment the read address once it reaches the maximum value it will go back to zero. So we are incrementing by this X, step size. Again that step size is coming as a parameter by default it is one but again if you want to increase the frequency some other value can be configured. One extra thing that we didn't discuss in the slide is the amplitude of the sine wave so by default the output amplitude will be whatever values we showed in the lookup table but in case you want to scale it, there is a provision. So that's also given as a parameter. So the output is actually content of the lookup table pointed by the readfinder divided by what a scale we put. Again by default it is 1 so whatever is stored comes out but there will be some cases we want to reduce them. So in that case we can specify this one. FPGA is not very good at dividing with the numbers which are not power of 2. So in practical cases, this amplitude scale will be always on power of 2 or 4 or something like that. Okay so that's what is used here. That's it. So to test it there is a test bench also. So demonstrate different capabilities. So we have 100 megahertz clock generated here. There is a 200 megahertz

X-Block generated here, and I have instantiated multiple lookup tables here. So first lookup table is the traditional one which is getting a 100 megahertz clock and here is the output from the lookup table. Second one is to demonstrate how to get a faster sine wave so that we are getting by feeding with it. So, I will show you how to do this. So, let's go back to the next slide. So, let me show you how we can do this. So, let us see how to do it. So, let is say that we have a high read pointer clock frequency. So, 200 MHz clock we are feeding here.

This one is to demonstrate how to get speed up using sub-sampling. Maybe I will feed that one also with 100 MHz and here I am giving a step size of 4. So, read pointer will be incremented by 4 actually. SoC, so the sign that I get here, it should be four times faster than the sine wave that I get from here because of sub-sampling by 4. This is just to show the scaling one. So here we will be dividing the output by 2. So the amplitude of sine wave should be half compared to this sine wave here and this is for generating cosine. So the phase I am specifying as 90 degree. So I should get an output with a 90 degree phase shift. And we add all of them to a Vivado project. This lookup table is fully synthesizable, like I added my

lookup table memory initialization file as my design source and the test bench that we have seen screen, that's my simulation source. So here are the outputs from the five different lookup tables. We run it for some time. Now it is shown as simply numbers here. So these are the numbers coming out of lookup table. Now Vivado, similarly has a very nice feature where you can ask the simulator to treat these and Vitis numbers as some samples from an analog signal and display the analog signal to me. So first I will change the radix to signed specimen because we will be looking at sine wave which are signed in nature then we can simply say waveform style to analog.

You can see it is displaying the sine waves, so we want to interpret the values here as and some samples, and it is trying it as a unload signal. So this is the sine wave that we get at 100 megahertz. Since we are using 1024 samples, the frequency of this will be approximately 98 kilohertz, something like that. So this is designed at 100 mega hertz. This is the sime we get at 200 megahertz so you can see it is faster in nature. This one we got it by subsampling. So, we subsampled by 4 because of that you will see the frequency is four times compared to this sign. This sign is scaled 1 so the amplitude of this sign is half of this one again visually it is not clear but if you check the amplitude here it is 1090, the same time the corresponding value here is 500 and 9. And again finally the cosine which we got by specifying the phase as 90. So here if I compare the phase, yeah I can see this signal is leading my sine wave by 90 degrees. So it's kind of representing and then the other one is the put in the EXAT value. That means the value here is not 2019, this is some value close to 1. So if you are using fixed point representation and if you want to see what is that EXAT number again in Vivado simulator we can go here and we can go to waveform style, analog settings There we can say I'm using, sorry not here. I can go to Riodics here and Real Settings.

And here I can specify it is using fixed point, design number and the binary point is at that because we are using 10 bits for fraction part 2 bits for integer part. So once I say It will be showing the actual number again because of scale. So, in the next video we will be showing how to do this. We will be using these sine waves and we'll be using them as carriers and baseband signals and we'll doing different kind of modulation Ok, see you, thank you
