Hello, everyone. Welcome back to the showtime. Today we are diving deep into the powerful AI Plus FPGA workflow. How to recognize hand-written digits using a deep learning model applied on a trailing state-free 104 FPGA with WRCL machine? So this video is packed from Vivado hardware design, Petalix setup, model training and coordination using YDIS AI so all the way to deploying on the real hardware. So if you are into AI, MDA systems or just AIA running on FPGA, stay tuned and let's get started. Before we start building anything it is crucial to make sure all our tools are compatible.

So in this space you can see different versions of DPO, IP, Vashions. So we are using Vitis AI 1.4 and so the correct matching versions for the Vivado and Vitis A So you can always refer to this official law compatibility table on GellingSubs.com to double check your machines before proceeding. We will begin by setting up the hardware using Vivado 2021.1 and let's start creating a new project with ZC104 board. So click on create project and click next, and here I am using the A-Drive and now let We choose one folder for this and I have created one handy-tend-is-it-resection folder for this And my project name is hardware4dpu and handy-tender-wix-reformation

Next, Next and go to the boards choose the ZCU104 under here, ZCU 104 is now click on that and click next and finish. And here the project is created, the project is created, integrate the depot IP block from the ProDare repository. So in this repository, you can find all the files which I am mentioning in this video and here now we can find the depot IP from this depot IP repo folder. And the repo link is provided in the description. So let's add the depot IP repo to the project. Click on the settings and go to the IP, click on repository, click on add symbol and here I've had the IP in this T2IP repo, click select, now we can see the IP was added here and then

okay let's open it here small let me just minimize it yeah cool no click okay now the IP was and add it to that. Now, from the Git repo you can get the IP flow. And now if you go to the Git repository here we can find the block diagram script with TCL script which you can run in the TCL console. And if you see my script was in the A drive and handy it in this block. So I'm going to change that directory in the click command to locate to there. and P and Sbook script, Yes, now source Dpnu X1 SoC, Z1H1, Z2H1H1H2, Z2U1H2H3, Z2C1H1.TICKLE.

And now I'm running. Now the blob design is being created and then keep connected a few seconds. And now if you see the blob tiger means pre-created and here we have the zinc PS here and then and we have the DPIP which we added from the DPPO let's see what is there in the DPIP for our design, we are using DPIP single core to optimize the ZCO Limited B RAM and we are using the Amish very low and also here we are having the DPIP-30, ULTARAN used for DPU 30 and if you are using the dual core, you can have to choose 240 or the rodent and just enable the dual clock here. If it is not enabled, then here it is using the XVI protocol for the control and here it is having the data 0, MXC is data 0 and MXC data 1 for the weights and activation

functions to transfer to the GPS and along with that we have here the DPOR, DPOE-INTRAP signal here. So yeah so in our model we are going to use the Reylo for the ReylO and actually we are using for the final output we are using Softmax but here we're keeping the Softmax score at zero because we are going render the final Softmax function in this CPU side and then, because it's going to take a lot of resources so to optimize that. So as of now we're using Softmax 0,0 and then I'm going to explain further where we are going Softmax.

So just okay and then go to sources and let's just create the HDL wrapper here at auto- generate. Okay. Once you know this is being updated and here we have the wrapper which is B. created and then click on the block design and choose auto-contest per IP and just use maximum cost to make it look faster, to generate faster. Just click generate. Now, now it is done go to design runs you can see auto-contests models were generated It is being synthesized. In the meantime, let's go to settings and change the implementation strategy so in order to avoid the timing errors we are changing implementation strategies. So here under this choose the address performance. Let's go physics post route and go to the here

We need to go to the post-lout, yeah, we are going to the post office design and you have changed it to the Ingress to explore and then click OK. So here in this you can change the statistics of implementation design according to your specific designs so yeah let's click OK So we have changed the strategies and now we can have to generate the bitstream, to generate the Bitstream and click OK. And now bitstream is being generated and when it is generating here you can see as we change the performance exposure here we change so based on the tutorial we generate it's designed. So yeah now it may VIT, VIT-DMA, VIT, ILA, ILA-ILA, ILL, ILL-ILA-ILL-ILL, ILA SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, ILA‐SCT, Zynx, ZynQ, XSct, ILA., ILA‐Lite, ILA-SCT,

Zynq. SoC, Vitis‐Lite. SoC, soC, Vivano, ILA “XSCT, SoC, Just click on Windows R and then this run, enter the optional features.exe Now this will be pop up and here under this you should enable the Windows Subsystem System, and in this way is this. Yeah, here you know, you're going to need to Windows Substream Linux, you need to enable this, and then you can install it, and it will support this window on your system, and then just click OK, and it'll ask for a system restart, and restart your system. So once we've got installed, when you opened the event, so it will ask for your username, and password, etc.

Passcode, and everything. And yeah, that's it. So after that we just ask you to open your terminal. So you can just use the terminal in this. So if you want the desktop version and you can use a boot image, a separate boot image or you can use the virtual machine for that. So, but yeah I thought this is a easy process for you to install even 2. So yeah in this also and this I can use everything and if you see all that at all the end from this you can access the CDRI data software window systems and all. So yeah so once this window installation is done so here we have some original requirements which we going to need.

So you need to install all these packages. So this is available in my GitHub repo, the documentation. So just update it and upgrade. And then you need to set this to the dash. So it won't send in this year. There's all these commands and installed All the required packages from this. And then next, set up the TFTP server. You have a firmware too. So these are the requirements which you're going to need. And then next we're going to do for the Patelek system. So for that, and you need to install the PateLEK, install it.

So Patelelek, download and from the AMD. VIVI, VIVI IBSORCE you have to install a material in XSCT and just go to the downloads and just choose achieve folder and it will load and we gonna need that 2021.1 version just click here and then yeah install this and yeah and apart from that if you want if you have some additional Data to download, you can also download these SSD-KH and download images, this SSD R64 and download updates here. So, these are the artifacts which is needed for us too if you want to run the and the PaterionX in the offline without using network then these both are necessary otherwise it is not required to download too because from the PateronX installer it will get this

from the online so yeah but to avoid the network issues and all its better to install this and here we have all the board support packages and further the C104. Since we are running the PEO on that, we have separate board support packages which is the and T-Addit, Vitis, ILA, ILA-Site, ILA. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, ZSCT, ZSCT-Lite, and then you can download the file for the PateNys install which was downloaded from the AMD website and just run and just give the command and here you have to just give the directive in which folder it has to download it and then yeah after that just go to and yeah let's see how once you downloaded it let's see, how the setup was done and yeah if we go to the PETA Linux and this

Control-No Phone version, and yeah, and we have to source the settings. And now we can see. And now, better Linux, create a code. And here you can see that the commands which and we are able to use it to create the pattern in X-Projects And now, we have different templates for the jinx and all And then, yeah, so this is the main pattern in X, along with other methods which are used to create a pattern in X project And if you are fail to load this pattern in X thread Then there might be some mistake in the installation or if you're facing any issues then sometimes it may be the network issue also because if you are using any organization network interface, so they may block this AMD, the download thing.

So, because of that you may face in the further steps. So after this pattern is created we are going to configure the root process and boot and kernel and during a pattern X build space while you downloading the SDK as download images from the AMD website so it may block the files so and it may cause the pattern X build errors So that's why I have shown you the Patelenix website to download this SSD cache Now let's go with the Patelenex create, let's create new project here I am going to the process folder, Project, yeah, Project Petalynix, Create and Type, Project, and I'm sourcing here, I need to source the BSP3 and BSP package.

As if you see my BSP board package is here under the process and all, so I'm just giving this directory for the project and the database for the source and then just give their public name as DPU and return. And this is it, recognition, yeah, no, just in turn, the cost was created successfully and then here, now I'll just enter the next config and get hardware description. And here you need to give the XSF file which we are getting from the Vivado. So now let's see how the bitstream is being generated. So yeah, now you can see that bitstream is successfully generated.

Now you need to export the block design, click on export block design. and here I'm going, sorry not, I need to export the hardware or block this now, so if you click on it. Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, ZY So, we have this path in the hardware description. So that we have under the, since we have it in mode E drive and return one second. And so here my hardware wrapper is in this mode E drive right? Drive, so here I have this paths file and so here I'm just copying this file, ctrl C and just paste it here and just click enter and now we can see, oops sorry here it's showing I just went to the different project file path so just make sure you have the same project file path.

So this is my project file hardware file path so I am just again running this pattern and Now you can see it is creating and here what are the bits file you have included in how the indexing the accessf file it is being connected to the system.xaf file if you can see here so what are the findings will be so the patterns we take as the system.accessf file so yeah and we generate it so once it done it will So you can pop up like this and you can just move using your arrow case up and down and selecting to navigate through this.

So now we are going to, since and also I have to want to mention this thing that we have taken the ZC102 board surface pack cases so we need to change that to the ZC104. So here go to the Togo settings and change that to 104 and click OK, exit once and then again go to the DSD settings and here just change name to the 1004 and click OK. So here we can see here, it is the, you can see that it is the SATA turner at TTYP issue and board data of 0.1.5200. So yeah I'll go back and let's change the other board, where X-ray turn. Next we have to go to the firmware version configuration and just change to the let's C for 104 here, OK and then here for OK and exit.

Now one more thing, MAs back is configuration. Yeah just make sure since we are using SD card for the flash so you can just go this, this, come in, this, pick setup and yeah finally for the booting it is going to generate MAs.yubify and then yeah, and you have to disable this, copy final in SCT of the TP import, resume again, okay some errors here. And there finally all the root file systems are going to be for compared to this JZ file format external core so yeah, then finally to boot your ZC-104 board, you're gonna need to divide your SD card to the boot partition FAD32 format and your second boot partition to the external format in order to have the refresh systems. And yeah, that's it now let's just exit the, just click OK, yes,

yeah, now the configuration is saved. And then, in the Octo-Build system we need to add the Metawite is AI layer, so usually in the BOSHA book, because we have the DN and DK layer which was deep. SoC, Vivado, VDMA, UART, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA. layer, just use this command and also just one-to-one mention whatever the commands which I'm using everything was available in this GitHub repo for you guys so if you can see all the GitHub meta-Vitis layer all the paths files everything was available here so it is be it was downloaded if you see so here if we see meta-virus layer it is here I just want this path So that we can add this in the file name. Yeah, I'll just compare this file name. Now yeah,

now let's add this to the config system, that is config. Add this layer and for this you need to go to the doctor settings, user layer and here you're going to need to copy paste here and just click OK. So note it, you can see it was added and then yes that's it. And yeah here if you want to as I said before previously I told you guys to download the SD cache so if you want go for offline build of your pattern X then you can just need to enable this by pressing Y and then yeah and just disable the network by entering N, and if you just go to that pre-mirror and here you just need to as if you see yes it is taking the downloads from here or if you if you download it or

if you open download this package this thing this download it's and what the downloaded file path location you can just replace it here simply you can just XSCT, SST-FREECASK, that one, that file part, you need to add it here. So yes, and now let me just go through the, through this build on the on and build. So if you guys want to go to the top right side, choose that part, that is the way in the same width. And yeah, just skip this part. And then exit, exit, yes, this company won't take much time to build it, exactly.

Now we are going to change few settings, further you can just go to the Ubuntu files, whatever the Ubuntu files we have here. You can just go the Ubuntu and go to the Home, and then if you go to the projects which have been created, see we have the project which we created here, Windows file systems, and here we have everything. And since we didn't have the DNDK packages, it will be manually mentioned here, so for that we need to remove that DNDK package in the BitBakef file. So for that we go to the BitBaked file, So to remove that, you need to go to the components and up to layers, Metapattal, Linux, Recipi-course and go to the package groups. And we're going to put a package groups, button, and X, Y, T, I

I, yeah we got this layer here and let me edit it in the plan. So yeah, just simply to note this line, that's it. And just click save this, yeah. And go back to the file systems and yeah, we need to change one more file system for the video processing system. Crossing System, so for that we can go back to the terminal and let me create for the OpenCV. You just need to create this multiple data. I want to plug it back and here just create the OpenCV folder. Sorry, we have already changed the path here. So, this command which you copied from the GitHub.

So even you guys can find all the commands from the GitHub repo. So yeah, so the OpenSea was created and after this, V Go back to the file system and here I want to add additional packages, so for that I am going to go back to the main systems and then here let me go to the projects specs and meta users, configures and yeah let me I just want to read this file to add additional properties so we already have the JPEG and Facebook so on this paste in this so yeah these are all the additional which I want to add in the system. So, yeah now let me so yeah so before going further and also we need to enable this all the two systems so before going further I also want to change the device tree and this BSP package also let's configure this to a whitelist, pergist streamer so for that you need to add these extra two lines to whitelist this and just click save and also let's edit the device tree file too My device is so available in this. And this, I am going to use this as SPB, SPs, device 2, files, and this system is a file we need to change. So yeah, here already we have since we have these many entraps number because of this default it is using the end up of 4 DPA cores. So that's why it is creating like this. So yeah, we gonna change this DP address here and here and interrupt number ID here. So yeah so for that we need to go back to the address editor here

and let's find what is the DPU IP base address. So here DPIP base address is edge end of 0. WZO, WZO. So yeah, ZMA is yours. So whatever the product I have provided, my GitHub therefore mostly available will be generated in the end and you have indeed need to go disable this 1.8V so in order to avoid the error in the pattern exporting. So yeah just click serve and next settings so far that's it. So we can just proceed further patterning next configuring, User packages, so let me just enable this, so here we added this and now he has just press apply to enable, and enter this level, and exit, and let me see here, so yeah user packages yes, so here I'm going to enable all which I enabled, so we have the

Part 1, and we have Vitis there, Vitis there we don't have, we have Vitus there, and Vitis there we have, and Vitus there we have, we haven't, and we haven't OpensiviD, SoC, Vivado, V images, switches to disable the drop-bear and enable the OpenSSH. And also make sure to enable the package management and debug these. And if you just press the auto log in here and no need to enter the password or enter further, petal-nax in the JET-CU board so because we So we have to log in and go to the file system packages and go to MISC Here also, here also we need to disable the package core SSH drop here And here go down, here we have an accessible disk And here click exit

Let's go back to here, let's go to the console here and go to network and here we need to go to the open SSH and just enable open SSH here and SSH, HSTP server, SSHD and SCP to transfer the files and so on. Yeah, I think so far that's it nothing much will quite that's it then in this we can enable go to utils and you want to be meditative use just enable here and yeah there we have many and then you can just enable it here. And enable the Gstreamer here in the package groups, Gstreams, and yeah, it's enabled, right?

Already is enabled and just make sure it's enabled. That's it. and yeah, that's it so far. Yeah, if you want to get a little bit deeper, I'll go demo. Yeah, so far, I think this we are done with this. Yeah, here they can show you the password of the route or if you want add the next radius, you can use the add extra radius, extra radius, and here it means that PateLix is the user name and PateLinx is the password as well. So yeah, exit and save the configuration. And next we are going to the P The kernel process will be faster and also it is only for the one-time, only once it is done and if you want to reconfig again, again So the next time don't take too much time to load it. So now let's wait for the kernel to download

In the meantime if you want to feel the Ubuntu, I mean Ubuntu and the ROM may feel that this terminal and you can just change the VIVR and yeah this settings should be open when you press controlled, come up and here let's choose the Ubuntu endowments so that we can just get the good enough is in Ubuntu yeah here you can all change all of the formats here and just click save Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA‐SCT, ILA-SCT, and record MDPC, see my documentation here for one second. So just follow this document flow.

So from this you can get the Docker installation. This run this also it will just under GPC and then here it'll get this Docker repository, get added and then yeah, so successfully Docker will be added Here you can see these are the commands which should be used to pull an image and we are going to pull the Vitis AI image So run this command in the meantime, kernel being loaded And then to make sure Docker is successfully running Just run this Docker run Hello World command So it's gonna print you some data, let's see whether my new configuration was successfully done or not So yeah here it show me hello from doctor this was showing the instruction a bit working correctly So yeah, I successfully instrument occur

Now let us go back to the kernel Where it is? Config UI and now we can guys see here. Here I got some few warnings but These are going to be errors because I am using my organization network, so which is blocking these two downloads from that. So now I'm going to change to my mobile network so that I won't face this issue. So yeah, if you guys are facing such issues just try and changing the network and make sure it is not blocking or you can just go for the offer and download where I mentioned the steps before configuring the patternized initially.

Yeah, now we can see it is being loaded now. Let me zoom in. I'm having some trouble zooming but let me just go for this. Anyway, we're gonna go to this config only just two Steps, Vivoneo, disable the CPU power management. So just scroll down to the CPU power management and then click on the CPU header and then press N to disable the CPU and get PM support, exit and go to CPU frequency scaling and press N and exit and exit, and exit, that's it. No more much configuration changes. And click yes, that's it. And yeah so far we have done the pattern configuration now we are going to build a pattern mix so which will compile the kernel, device tree and DootFi systems based on the hardware which we configured.

And yeah, and it would take some time depending on your systems. So let's run the pattern and X build command. So once you exit from the kernel, I'm going to just few minutes to load, to complete the process flow. And let's wait for that. Now you can see, the RAM is successfully configured. Now let's run the Petel-X build. So yeah, Petel in X, Build. That's it guys. Now it will build all the files. So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, SD card, ILA, ILA- and it may take even 8 days to successfully build the image.

So, and then yeah, but why I'm using this? Because now I am system having 8 cores, now it will take 8 cores and it will run the 8 tasks paralleling while building or if you're gonna go for the offline building of pattern X So it may run faster, it won't take like hours to load the database And yeah, and now I'm sure you have the proper connection to build successfully And apart from that, now in the next step we are going to package the product petal-enix We are going to install the Docker as we already installed the Docker, we have seen in a few past steps where I showed my GitHub repo. So install once you done with the Docker and then we next go into the Vitis installation. So I hope you guys successfully installed the Docker

since it's going to take a lot of time. So now let's go to the Vitis A environment and let's completely setup that environment with parallelism in order to save the time. Let's go into Ubuntu, New Tab, and now we can see in my GitHub, so this is a Docker installation and my Docker is successfully installed perfectly. make sure you just run this sudo mode, sudo had no car as a user in that and only to add the run with sudo every time you are done so yeah so if you see here so here we're using whitest AI whitest AI multiple times sorry so we have we are using whitest AI and for every different versions of whitest AI we are having different tags Vitis of Docker, and from the link here which will go through this.

And if you see for the different versions of Docker, you can have different images, folding from for the doctor. And here we are going to pull the Vitis 1.4 version. So this we're going to copy and also over here, there is water I went here and just copy V I'm going to take a lot of time for you guys to run this. And also, I want to mention this that if you guys are using, If we have the GPU, you can just pull the GPU image or if you have CPU, pull the CPU image. So based on that, I'm going change this command accordingly and then now yeah.

So let's pull over the Docker workspace so far there, Let's create new Docker workspace for that. So here already, if you see here in my folders I have created or let me create one new Docker workspace here Let me just navigate to this, and I post it so I'm just creating here a new Docker workspace Yes, new docker's workspace I created and I am going to use SoC, Now I can say this and now, so now in my GitHub repo already you can find a Docker workspace download this docker workspace. So we're going to create the container on this docker workspace so i have downloaded and if you open the docker workspace you're gonna have these files and just want you to just delete this quantized model compile because the steps you're going now

First we go into random model and then we're going to quantize the model and going to compile the model. Since we are going to repeat a step second, so whatever I turn off on the GitHub, because you just delete this and also this is the version of model which we're going to first, which you go into, we have to generate it again so you can just delete this So, let's read it all and see how to use the Vitis AI to compile the module, train the module and everything. So now I have this docker is in the project folder so I'm going to take that as a user workspace for my nokka container and run my container. So according to your So, now we are going to use TensorFlow 1, the word of the model which are higher is on TensorFlow

1, 1, so I'll just copy this and conduct activate where it is in TensorFlow. If you want to use TensorFlow 2, you have to use TensorFlow 1, so yeah, let me activate, conduct away 1, and then let's see how it looks like. So now taken to the workspace here, here, And then here we are loading and pre-processing the data. And then here, we're running this CNN model and input nodes of input and nodes. These are the placeholders for the input images which is required for the TensorFlow one. and then yeah so here the final output will be the logics for the so this is the final unnormalized output before the softmax that we have seen before we as I mentioned earlier so this softmax will be using in the CPU side of the Z3 board

so there we going to use softmax so yeah so output will be in the logic nodes and Then next we have the performance metrics too, and then finally The model is going to train here and the approach I am running the PyAppox here. And then finally, the model is going be saved in the.pb file frozen graph. So then you are here just a normal metric just to find the average throughput of the image so that we can compare with the CPU and the ejects to you on the ejects, DPX, SoC, yeah, now let's just run the model. So I'm going to use Python, vzic-model.py, Yeah, so now it will load the model, train the model and then you can see the epochs of how much it is being loaded and it's gonna take some time to run the process and everything.

So let me see, till then let me pause this recording. And while you're watching the video sometimes you may see my flow is very short but actually I'm pausing the recording there so that the video won't be much longer. So maybe in real-time if you steps or what I'm implementing It may take longer than you watch, so make sure some steps are really going to take a lot of time. Just be patient and let it load properly. So here the model is being trained and after that it will run the 5 episodes as I mentioned if you want to improve the accuracy of the model and just increase more the number of Viproks, so there it will train more and more.

So now let's see how our Petrelix build is going on. As you can see, so far it was just 12% was done. And as you can see I have 8 cores, so only 8 tasks are being running at a supposed to be virtual machine. If we have 2 tasks, only 2 tasks will be running in panel, So it's gonna take a lot of time more than that and if you have 16 cost then yeah, it's gonna make your run task much faster So yeah, so let this be there. Let's wait for the for hours So it will train what else? So in the meantime just grab some coffee Just take some break and also I forgot to mention that It's going to take 60,000 and the images for training and 10,000 images for testing of the image.

So yeah, let's see. Yeah now we can see the model was successfully trained and we generated the model that described the kernel in there. Let's see. Yeah so it just successfully saved the frozen model in this. And also we can inspect the model, the word of the nodes, output nodes and input nodes using this camera And since this is the path and where we are, let me just focus here So yeah, we have TensorFlow quantization inspection and then here you can get what are the nodes, what are the input nodes, what the output nodes of the processing graph So only after this and for the quantization we're gonna need the Calib, the calibration for the calibration. We're going to need the Calib datasets And that further to generate

The dataset of the graph and we are going to need 100-200, so for that Already I had the script in the script index, so generate in Calib.py So we gonna use that script and gonna generate some 100 datasets of image for the calibration of this And if you see here, the input of this, this input and the shape of the images are this And since 28 was 28 and it's one shape so grayscale, so yeah SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, XSCT, ILA, UART, ILA-SPFPGA, UART‐TENO, ILA‐SPFPGa, ILA–SPFPG Let us turn the color images and here we are going to generate 100 image, if you want to touch 1000 or something what is the number. You can just change the number here, you can just get that. Now I am going to generate the color images. See? So, the model says

successfully and also if you want labels in the code, you see my code, I just comment that if you want label out of particular images natural labels so you can just remove the comments and get the levels also. So yeah, finally here the main thing is we gonna need a input function so this is the input function so I will show you what is there in the input function. So according to our model which you are going to train or what image you would want to pre-process So that will be used for the quantization. And this code, this input function code directly I just taken from the YT's AIO documentation there that in the three JB measure, but I didn't make some much changes in that as if you see

in the code, I just taken the given what is Calibri measures, data set where it is there and the episodes. and in the labeled out text, actually we gonna need the images, I mean the image caption names what were there in the images so that I am going to show you, image net, image net list, just go into rename and let me show that at least two. So that when yeah, when going for the batch size of Vipin is change it to 20. So since we have taken 100 images, so I'm going to take 20 batch size. And next year, you put head and output head.

Reminding this is the pre-processing of the image, cropping, UPC data. First initial it's loading the data and then cropping and resizing everything and the final pre-processing So yeah, and in the, this is the example which was given from the Vitis documentation. And here I just changed with the channels, you know before they did for 3G RGBs, I just changed it to 1. So even I can just minimize it and just give you that add input function. But here is the main function which will be loaded and then, and here in the AX, so here I need to change the name here because if you see here that input name of this is input.

So I need to give that input name here. So input, I'm going to change this to input. Yes, input. So yeah, that's it. So now we're going to get that. So now let's run this, sorry, not this one, but this one, Save, Save and then let me go to this. Now if you see the documentation, my documentation, so here this is what the flow is going to do. This is the way, and yeah, I'm just going to change a few things since I gave the card it was actually here, I need to change the calibration here, wait one second, this is getting...

Actually here before going further, I generated the early... Vocabulary, ILA, ILA. This is the Calib images which we generated, so this image is file names which we generated. Now let's run the quantization, so yeah, Aswan is copying from that, Githurp, the same and yeah just make sure you make changes according to your file names which you guys given and maybe in my document the file names are different, so make changes, make sure of what you guys So, since here I mentioned the backside is 20 there, so it's 100, so number of iterations should be 5, so 20 into 5 are 100 images total. So based on that you have to do the ILA iteration number here accordingly, since I don't have no GPU here in my PC, so I'm giving GPU as

0 and these are the input shares which I am giving and yeah, so let me run this quantization and now, yeah it's not going to take much time as like others. So yeah because we have 5 stations to run and then coordination was saved in this so yeah now successfully it was done. Now let's go to the next step which is the YT's AI compilation and if you see The difference between quantization is YT, AI, Q for quantization and then TensorFlow. So for the same thing, for the compilation we have this, compare and then frozen, just compress this first anyway and then yeah so depending on the arc pictures you have, so whatever the IP you're going to add it's gonna show you here like this.

So, whenever you pull the images, there you can get all these details. All of that we have chosen everything will be generated in this. And also you'll be having different boards. Let me just complete this and let me navigate to that path so that you can see what are the boards which are available. So here the model is compiled and finally we generated the X model. So this is what the model which is going inside the Jet CEO board, which we are going to run the model on it. So before that let me just go quickly to this.

So, if you see here we have different boards, KC2-60 and so the Y2 is 1.4 when supporting this particular whatever the image will pull, so that contains these boards and this Y2 is 1.5 will support these three boards. So based on that, you gonna make sure which version or which IP you wanna make it compatible and who you want to run the and which based on the which model you want to learn. So based on the you have to choose the IP and if you see a DPSC is for the MS policy. So for the different models there are different which you can find it in the documentation.

So let me just go back to the workspace and let's see if we have the compiled model here and then quantized model here. So yeah, finally the work is done. So now we're gonna send all this compiled models to these ones. SoC, Vivado, Vitis, Zynq, ZSCT, ILA, ILA. study measure, touchstore, few of the five images to test the SAM, to test the model on the ZSCT board. And yeah for that and also we gonna send whatever files we want to share to the target board so we're going to send it through SCP using because it is a fast and easy process.

So here if you just come here compile model, so I'm just making a shared folder which we're going to share it to the, what is this? Share it to the just, sorry, TaggedBoard. Share, share module and then I can just keep it in this. Okay, I'll get a dataset. I'm just taking this few samples, 10 images. So yeah, this copy is successfully added. Let's keep it aside so that we can share later the safety. Now next as I mentioned we're going to share it through the SCP. So these are commands to share so but yeah we have other flow that i'm going to share how to share it through windows, through windows SCP and yeah. So before I go into this step and still I think We forgot about this, we are still running the P

Teledyte and we gonna be done. So yeah, so I think this is going to take too much time but for the video record purpose, I made another visit to make it ready so that I can I don't need to wait just for my purpose. But for you guys, this is going to be built like that and finally, so I'm just canceling this process in my system and now let me just go to this so that I can show you the steps how it works. So, I'm going to the other project which was already built till build it was done. So, I am going into the next step, how it's gonna...the next process is going to be done.

So, that was it, all I just made is DPU. Yes, so in this let me show you how the build, successful build will be showing up. As if you guys can see here, if once already build and if you're running this for the same brother if you are building again, so it gonna just load it as much faster as like this and even if you go for So once you have built successfully, it's going to show you the built project as like this. So now the next step is, if you see, it's 3D images, images, VNX, So, we go to the composite directory and see what are the first we have.

So for the image booting, we need this image file and boot.s VIGONA, package it so that we will get the boot file. So after going to this directory, I'm running this command. Package then ZYNC-LF file which we're getting from here and then system.bit file, the hardware, hardware bit file which we initially if you remember we are from the and the Brafbar we are getting there. And also here I want to mention one more thing, and if you're changing your hardware, simply by changing your system.bit with your own bit file, you can just repress it from here directly in a file path, and you can just upload the file from here.

No need to again rebuild it again, getting hardware is not required. So yeah, now I'm just running this. Just to get the BIN file, and yeah, it won't take much long time. So, bin file is ready. Now if we save this, after the packaging, you can see the bin file here. Now, we need to copy this bin file, this bin file and this SIR file and the MS file and this device drift file. And then what else? This all goes to the One Partition of the boot partition and then this true Tefes file will go to the external for partition.

So actual problem of using this Ubuntu from the store which we have changed, I'll show you previously. So the issue is the windows can't detect the external for partition system. So for that purpose, I'm gonna use the virtual machine for that. So on the virtual machine, I'll make my ESP card mount-on in my ESP in the virtual machine and then there I'm going to do the partition and all. But what I don't use of using this Uvendo in the windows is to receive the I-task being Paralleon, but if you see for this I have only two processes, if I go into further four processes of course and all my virtual machine is getting struck so I found this is much better.

And yeah for SD card I can just share the files and I can just upload it from there. So here now I am opening my virtual machine. Now from USB already my ESP-TABR is connected already to that So I'm just mounting that on the so that it will show in my virtual machine Here's my virtual machine and yeah, open terminal Checking whether it was loaded or not If you see, this is my SD card which is mounted. Since already I have the partitions in there, so I can't able to see the total. My SD card is HGP. So let me just run this command to this, let me delete the partitions and then I can show you guys again the partitioning again from the beginning.

So when you run this command, it will show you for the plug base and if you just enter P, I'll just say n plus, nothing here is fine. So if we just enter P here and you can see SD card is not a partition so I'm just going to gonna delete it again, do the partition, just enter one first partition and delete 2nd parties and both parties, so very deleted. Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, ZY and then I will unmount the, sorry, the comments are in my documentation. You can just follow second unmounting and then for fat partition and this one around this.

And also you guys have already may have some doubts since already I did get partition now I'm again running but there I did a partition but I didn't save the partitions okay whatever the defiter I didn't saved that's all that's bad advantage of that even if we do that I May not regret it. So yeah, just enter, enter, enter. Yeah, so yeah. Now I'm just getting the, these bin files from here. So I'm gonna need this bin file, vote and then this image file and system.db file and then this root of partitions. So these files I'm gonna need for my partition, so I'm just copying it, copying it and let me just create a new file I went to Visual Machine and here I'm just copy this file so that I can share this complete folder today

So now you guys can see here I have my A1-2 files which are just loading so now we are going to go to the SD card since I think these are in the A1- 2 folder Now before going to the patch further, let's just see our partition square So, if you just say 1GB is there and 64GB1 that's mounted as TB1, SD2. So yeah, so before booting to that we need to create the port and mount partition through this make it to the grid and just let me just create this make good partition since already I have created before showing for me like this all file access so, party 2 and so on.

If you are creating for the first time. So now I'm going to mount the STV1 partition to my boot, it is mounted now, I am just copying the boot bin file and boot sf file and ms file and system.dtb file to the boot partition and after that just unmount that partition, now mount the second partition, after that we have How to mount the second partition, and showing something, something other, wrong with this, but I put us. Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, SD card, ILA, ILA‐ So what, maybe you may not occur but according to my other business just simply warning some info which I got.

So that is completely fine. Putting unwanted and close it. So successfully we have done the SD card data sharing. Yeah so now we can debug your SD card and keep on your ZC board. So now if you look at to the ZSCT board, so let me just open the, let's see boot options. So there you guys need to change the switches mode to the boot mode. Now let me just, where is the SD card image? Let me just show you this image. If you guys see here we have switches here. So here in the first switch you just make it up and demanding three switches down so that the ZZBoard will go under the boot mode. So after that, just open the TeraTime or you can use TeraTime, or you can just put anything as per your wish, or you

can just use the same data screen in the Linux terminal. So as I said ZDARIA, it is going to be a border of 115200. So let me just enlarge the screen. So yeah, now I'm just turning on the remote ZC104 and you can see the boating here like this. So yeah it's gonna take some two minutes of time to just put it completely. And yeah so in the In the meantime, just as I mentioned you before, just keep everything in your shared folder. Yes, yeah. So now we are going to share the compiled model which is a No-TEX model and some set of sample images.

and before that let's configure the Ethernet IP, so for that, I have configured the static IP of JetC104. Now I'm going to configure the static IP for my PC. Go to network and internet, then use status and networks, and click on change data settings, and just click on this internet, and go to properties, and now we can see here internet protocol, just click on it, and yeah, just configure the IPs. So maybe in your case it may be click on obtain IP address automatically, just choose to the So, for the communication we are using, we are hearing through SCPs, so if you guys can see have the Linux system in your PC, Linux OS then you guys can use the SCP command which already

I give a new detail in my GitHub repo. So otherwise if you are using Windows I think this is the best uses we can just install this with SAP. I guess download it and here all the day I I have downloaded that in SAP So, I'm just opening this. Just click on new connector. And here under this, just choose the SCP here and give the host name. So, I'll use my target board, ZC104 IP, SD10 port, N2, and then port 22. Just keep it there. Use the name of the ZC board is Rode and password is also Rode. and then just login and click on update so here I will get the Petalenix and root users of this so here you can see to do is just Petalenx and root and so let's do whatever thinking in that root users so yeah so yeah no finally actually yeah before

Forgot this, and we need the inference code for this. So that available in my GitHub. So here you can see ZC-104100 is that recognition. So those are the files which were present on the ZC board. So yeah, so if I open this, so you can have the inference code here. So that, which is going to be run on the ZCO104. So yeah, since already you guys had the compiled version, the compiled model and sample images here. So which already you guys generated your own.x model and here. So let's copy that inference code, so to here and let's all three together we can share that to the ZSeeBoard.

So I'm just gonna copy the inference code C++52. So here I copied by inference code also. So, yeah, so actually this is currently inside the Ubuntu since we created this new Vitis environment and all that. So I'm just going to share this share folder to my Windows. So now I just copy it to the file where IPOS created the hardware, you know, so there I can add the share folder. So now from SCP, so here if you guys see, if you guys see from the E folder I'm just going to the high hand rating design recognition folder and from here I'm just sharing this search here for so before that let me create one new folder here instead of the technical.

Let me just create to the terminal here. So, MAC Director, free of hand, with hand, switch, it will co-op machine. Yes! And then, yeah, let me see here. Let's create a node. See if I just give you a chance to run that road we have this. This is SWD. See? We are under road system so... So this is the best option to use the, best application to use this. So now I'm just simply uploading the file to the ZSCE board. Sorry, I need to share it under this folder and you can do it over. Okay. Let me just put the proper flow.

Yeah. So now if you see, we have the C++ file and images and compile model and all. So yeah so now the next task is converting this C++ inference code to the binary file. So before that I just want you guys, I want So, Vipin Kizheppatt, XSCT, Zynq, XSct, XSCT-Lite, UART, ILA, ILA‐ Webflow, Buford, simply you can just say to allocate a memory for tensile data and implement the data method to return contents as simple class which we have created. And then yeah next we have the, as you see here it expects these three R1s as I mentioned before for this we need 3 files, one is binary file which we going to do in the next step 2nd is the Model.xmodel file and then the 3rd input it needs is the image, that's it.

So after that it is going to next, deserialize the model, so here what that load and pre-processing of the.xmodel file is going through and then here it is now in the render command, so it finds the DPS subgraph for the model to assign to run on hardware, so this is the main function which is going to be used for that. And next is the image processing, image processing is being done to lower the grayscale image of it. Then here we have the input and output buffers, and then once it copies the image to the input buffer, then here it will run the inference on this job id by executing this asynchronously.

The model will be executing and it will wait till it finishes. So here I just had this N time, start time to measure the inference time window. So yeah, so after that as I mentioned earlier switch which I'm going to I told that I'm going to implement the softmax function in the CPU side, CPU of this TPU which is PS side. So yeah, here I'm using this is the main part where it is executing softmax and also here we have the max here to prevent the overflow in like providing preventing from getting the infinite values.

So yeah finally it gonna print the performance matrix and all so there's a simple code which was being running on the PCA. So now let's work on, what is it? Let's work on generating the binary file. So for there, the command is this. So whichever was provided in the git market hub you can see and so this is the plan and here we are giving the file which we have, which is this. Our file name is infinite dot underscore code and it will provide the output of MNIST model on the name Here we have the 10 digits, so we can have it. We have 10 class probabilities.

So let's see whether its model is created or not. We see here, MNIST model was created and so I'm just running this type, MNIST Model and then the second argument which you need to give Please come to the text file, which is... SoC, Vipin Kizheppatt, ILA, ILA-S XSCT, throughput is 561 frames per second. And if you want to see the CPU and I can say it outperforms the CPU performance and this is a previous screenshot which I have taken. So if you see the CPU performance is 598 milliseconds and whereas the DPO is 0.17.

So, and Vivin throughput is if you have this 1669. And here but here we have 5714 which is all like it's a 3x better performance we are achieving through the DPO acceleration. And so forth you guys have seen the real power of the DPO, acceleration of Jellings FPGA and you have seen the full journey of running an A model and deploying it on embedded FPGA system. I hope you guys liked this video and I hope you understand my explanation If you like this kind of in-depth content, please do not forget to like and subscribe Please drop your questions or any suggestions in the comment section and the GitHub link is forward in the description Thanks for watching and see you in the next one
